# rl.txt = logic clues for A Roiling Original
#
# r2l.py converts the invisiclues to a different HTML
#
->c:/Users/Andrew/Documents/GitHub/stale-tales-slate/Roiling
out=roiling-logic-invisiclues.htm
raw=roiling-logic-invisiclues-raw.htm
!A Roiling Original HTML Logic Clues
# remember to check this with logsync.py
====end header
>GENERAL
?Which puzzles are discussed here?
Only puzzles where the settler throws a question mark in cheat mode.
There's a brief recap of how to deal with the settler if it doesn't throw a question mark, but since the question mark may be unusually confusing, I tried to break down how it actually helps you long-term once you know how to deal with it. One exception is the Volt Maze, which can be determined logically.
?Can I get a recap of the settler in general in non-cheat mode?
Yes. If you scan certain items and then see what they should be, you'll notice a pattern. There's some spoilers below, but if you track settler vs. the right word, you should see a pattern.
Yellow slots wind up as AEIOU: for instance, STABLE is RRYRRY.
Red is the rest...except Y, which is orange.
?Can I get a recap of the settler in general in cheat mode?
Yes. Colors can be red, yellow, purple, green, orange or brown.
In non-cheat mode, red is a consonant, and yellow is a vowel.
Purple and green are red and yellow, with blue.
If you look at the latches, they have green and purple except at the ends. SATCHEL is almost latches, with letters switched at the end.
So purple and green mean that a letter is in the right place.
Orange is a combination of red and yellow, or Y.
Brown (orange plus blue, roughly) is a Y in the right place.
?What are some general issues and terms?
Well, for starters, "clog" means too many consonants. "Bleed" means too many vowels in a row.
There'll also be some terminology and shorthand: EN(DT) means End or Ent, and I may use several parentheses in a row.
?What does a question mark in the settler reading mean?
It means that one of the letters in the description is right, but not all of them.
Sometimes this can really help you more than an actual reading, though occasionally it can muddle things.
?What are general strategies for dealing with question marks?
If there is only one, you know whether it is a vowel or a consonant, since you should know the number of vowels and consonants in the target word. You will be a vowel or consonant short.
If there is more than one, you may wish to check if there is a choice between only vowels or only consonants in any one slot. If so, then you may be able to determine what the other question-mark slots must be.
Or if, for instance, the target word has two vowels, and the settler gives no vowels and two question marks, both question marks must be a vowel.
Combining these observations may allow you to knock off several question marks right away. For instance, a R?RR with just one vowel means the second slot must be the only vowel in whatever two words clash.
These won't always get you to the right answer, but they'll often get you closer than even a standard cheat readout with just colors. But they may seem confusing at first.
?Are there any fake puzzles in here to throw me off?
No. That'd be a jerk move. But there are some in the game invisiclues file proper.
>ORDEAL RELOAD
>>CARVEN CAVERN
# logic for respect specter
?How do I make sense of the cheat readings for the Respect Specter?
If you scan it several times, it gives hints.
The ambiguous readings also cut things down a lot.
(RS)(CRST)(ES)(CP)(ET)(CE)(RT) looks like a mess, but note that there are only three places (3, 5, 6) that can be vowels and E. We can go through them case-by-case.
Slot 3 is a consonant: (RS)(CRST)S(CP)EE(RT) becomes RCSPEET.
Slot 6 is a consonant: (RS)(CRST)(ES)(CP)(ET)C(RT) becomes (RS)(RST)EPEC(RT) and the only thing that doesn't clog at the start is STEPECR.
Slot 5 is a consonant: (RS)(CRST)E(CP)(T)E(RT) becomes SCEPTER. This works.
We could also immediately notice letter R being 1 clogs everything immediately, giving R(CS)(ES)P(E)(CE)T or RSEPECT/RCSPEET. So slot 1 is S. But that doesn't cut much down. Still, it's useful to know for later.
# logic for palest pastel plates
?How do I decode the palest pastel plates?
RR?RRY shows up. The question mark must be a vowel, since palest etc. have two vowels and four consonants. The only one that could fit is A. That leaves E in slot 6.
--A--E and now we can eliminate a few possibilities. The first letter can't be P, the second L, the fourth T and the sixth S. That's really not enough for a definitive guess, but if we look at what the first letter must be, L(PST) clogs, as does T(SP), so it has to be S. S(PT)A(LP)(LPT)E.
That leaves only a few choices we can brute-force. If slot 2 is P, SPALTE is not a word. So STA(LP)(LP)E = STAPLE.
>STRIP OF PROFITS
# logic for tropes poster
?How can we unlock the tropes poster and store p?
Well, you can scan store p, then the tropes poster, in order to circumvent the question marks. That's a big hint.
Or you can notice the first two question marks must be consonants. That's a big help. Slot 2 must be R or O, which means R.
Slot 3 is a vowel that is not O, so it's E, and slot 6 is a vowel, and O is the only remaining one.
But now slot 4 can't be P or T, and slot 2 covers R, so slot 4 is S.
(TP)RES(TP)O = PRESTO.
>STORE P
>>AUSTERER TREASURE
# logic for n e recs censer
?What do I do now that I got the item behind (ye) hoop?
It's an N E RECS CENSER. It gives RR???R. This looks pretty ugly, until you count vowels and consonants.
Slots 4 and 5 must be E. That leaves few possibilities for ---EE-.
You have (RS)(CNRS)(NR)EE(CN). But guesing R gives us RSNEEC. So the first letter is S.
Similarly, R in the second place gives SRNEEC. So it is in the third. That leaves SNEERC or SCREEN. SCREEN.
>>DIRGE RIDGE
# logic for sods gone odes song
?What do I do about the sods gone odes song?
The question mark must be a vowel, if you count vowels and consonants in "sodsgone" versus what is on the settler. So it is O.
Slot 3 is a vowel, too, and it can't be E, so it's O. That makes slot 6 E.
-OO--E-- is left. But the s's in slots 1, 4 and 5 for the clue words mean they must be in slots 7 and 8 at the end. -OO--ESS.
You can just keep listening to it for clues or use trial and error to get GOODNESS.
>>MARINES SEMINAR REMAINS
# logic for boing go bin
?What is with the boing-go bin?
For the boing go bin, we have ?YRRY. This isn't a huge clue, since it only means letter 1 is a consonant but can't be N.
We can, however, figure out the vowels. Slot 2 is I, since it can't be O, making slot 5 O.
Regular clues kill a few other possibilities, giving us (BG)I(NG)(BG)O. This makes slot 3 N.
Now GINBO is not a word, but BINGO is what we want.
# logic for sport ports
?What do you say to the sport ports?
The Sport Ports seem to give a huge mess, but actually, they work out okay if you poke at the details. ?R?R?. But looking at the undefined slots, only one could be a vowel: slot 3, since slots 1 and 5 leave a choice between two consonants. Therefore, we have --O--.
But from here, we have a lot of possibilities canceling out, due to the question marks.
(SP)(SRT)O(SP)(ST) is what is left. Now only slot 2 can be R, and once we know that, only slot 5 can be T. -RO-T.
Now PROST is more likely than SROPT, but also, if you noticed STROP gave red text, you'd have things figured out there.
>>PHAT PATH
# logic for hawt thaw
?Is there a word to yell at the hawt thaw?
The hawt thaw is trolling you a bit if you use cheat mode. Three question marks! But the one red letter you see is a big enough clue to get things rolling.
So, R???. The first character can't be H or T, but it's a consonant, so it's W.
Then, since one of the characters in each slot for hawt/thaw must be right, we have...
W(ah)(wa)(tw), and since W is already used, that gives W(ah)AT, or WHAT.
If you had used non-cheat, it would have shown where the A was, which would be an immediate hint but would not have spoiled everything.
Also, I found it hard not to use "what" to start this question sequence, for obvious reasons.
# logic for alert alter retreat all
?What should I say to the ALERT/ALTER part of the sign?
You have RY???. The three question marks look troublesome, but since there are only two possibilities each, this gives...
RY (ET)(ER)(RT). That leaves L and A as the first two letters, so...
LA (ET)(ER)(RT). That leaves LAERT or LATER.
LATER.
# logic for starch charts
?What should I do about the starch charts?
This is a bit of internet slang at the end.
But you know where the vowel is, and that's a start.
The first two consonants only have so many possibilities, and some aren't very sensible. That's the big clue here.
TR is really the only sensible sound to start that still fits (HRT)(CRS).
TRA(CHS)(HS)(CS) can be found by trial and error. Trasch.
>>HACKS' SHACK
# logic for usb
?Why does the USB give question marks?
That's because there are two solutions.
But since it's a three letter word, I didn't feel too guilty allowing for this.
The vowel in the middle leaves two possibilities.
You can leave via SUB or BUS.
# logic for clack ops locs pack
?What's with the Clack Ops Locs Pack?
This is a relatively tricky one. But we know where the second vowel is. It must be in slot 6, since that is the only one that has a vowel as a candidate. Since slot 2 can't be A, we have -a---o--. That is a good start, and having two c's helps, too.
The big question is, where are the c's? CL/A/PSLK/CS/CLS/O/CP/SK is what we have. This looks really sticky, but we can do some educated guessing. For starters, S cannot be in slot 8. If it were, we'd have CL/A/PLK/C/CL/O/CP/S. Then 1 or 5 would have to be C, and then 7 is P and 3 is K. (CL)/AKC/(CL)/OPS.
CL/A/PSL/CS/CLS/O/CP/K is left. Now if P is in slot 7, we get CL/A/SL/CS/CLS/O/P/K. LASCCOPK, CAL(CS/SC)OPK aren't words, so try our luck with L in slov 5. C/A/PS/CS/L/O/CP/K is what is left. This is CASCLOPK or CAPSLOCK. CAPSLOCK.
We can also use the red letter clues to make things a bit easier. PC Cloaks eliminates S in slot 8. POLACCKS puts L in slot 5 immediately. But it's still a bit tricky. Still, there are other clues that I hope makes up for it.
# logic for be troo e robot
?What can the Be-Troo E-Robot to?
Scanning it gives a few question marks, but they (as usual) make things easier.
Cheat-scanning gives the raw data of (RT)(ER)(BR)(EO)O(OT).
B must be in slot 3, but the real clue here is noting that if O is in slot 6, we get TRBEOO. That puts T in slot 6.
Further process of elimination gives us REBOOT.
# logic for im le cop polemic
?The I'm Le Cop Polemic seems sticky. What gives?
Seven letters is a lot! But we can make progress with the one question mark. It needs to be a vowel, so it must be O and not M.
From here, you may need to look at red text, because neither of the remaining vowels gets a clue to cancel it out. But you my be able to guess the computer term involved.
MEL COPI in red means I can't be in slot 7. -O--I-E. (CL)O(CMP)(LMP)I(CLM)E.
# logic for peels speel
?What is the peels speel trying to tell me?
It gives ?RG?R. That gives us a couple definitive slots right away. --E-P.
The others are (SP)(LS)E(EL)P.
But we can knock off, in order, slots 1, 2 and 4.
SLEEP.
# logic for bub dude egg
?What is with Bub Dude Egg?
You have BUBDU and DEEGG. They give ???Y?. This looks like a tall task.
(BD)(EU)(BE)(EU)(UG) pops out. Then you can try the usual logic tricks.
D and G are only possible one place, giving us D(EU)(BE)(EU)G.
But now B is only possible one place! D(EU)B(EU)G. DUBEG doesn't quite work.
DEBUG.
# logic for drive a / a drive / varied
?Why does Drive A throw out all these question marks?
It's A Drive, Varied, as well. This presents a lot of potential conflicts, but it makes some things easy, too.
The ?R?R?R clue tells you where the vowels are, and slot 1 must be A, 3 must be I, and 5 must be E, since one of the letters must be right, and these are the only vowels.
Then slot 2 is forced to be V.
Slot 6 must be R. AVIDER.
# logic for drive e / e drive
?Why does Drive E throw out all these question marks?
It's not only Drive E but also E Drive. The puzzle might be too easy with question marks, so I threw this curve ball in.
But actually, it's still not too bad, as the question marks fall out quickly. The green at the end is a nice help.
The clue ?Y???G gives (ed)(ei)(ri)(vi)(ve)E based on DRIVE E and E DRIVE.
Now D and R both only have one place to appear: slots 1 and 3, respectively. That gives us D(ei)R(vi)(ve)E.
Now you can either read Drive E to see "I'd Veer" in red, or you can try each possibility.
DIRVEE doesn't quite work, so DERIVE it is.
>STORE U
>>SAME MESA
# logic for warts do sow drat
?Why does the worst ad give questions? It's only one set of letters.
READ it carefully. The worst ad reads WARTS DO SOW, DRAT, and it gives R??Y??R. This looks awful, but slot 2 must be O or A, so it is a vowel.
That means the others must be consonants. Now we should probably be conservative and assume WORSTAD does nothing to help us, giving (DRT)(OA)(RW)(OA)(RST)(AD)(DRSW).
Slot 6 is D, and that makes things easier. (RT)(OA)(RW)(OA)(RST)D(RSW). We can make an educaated guess that S is the last letter, since .....D(RW) would be nonsense.
That helps a few things fall out: (RT)(OA)(RW)(OA)(RT)DS, or (RT)(OA)W(RT)DS.
The RADWOST red text leaves us with TOWARDS.
# logic for pats stap
?How do I enter Pat's Stap?
The ??RR suggests that there is one vowel in the first two letters.
But the first letter is P or S, so the second letter is the vowel.
The fourth letter gives a red reading, so it can't be S or P. It is T.
This leaves two possibilities, PAST or SAPT.
Go PAST.
# logic for Oscar's SOS ARC
?How do I enter Oscar's SOS Arc?
The YRRYR? reading means the final letter is a consonant, but we already kmew it was S or C, so that's not really helpful. But having the SOS ARC helps us place a lot of letters.
The first letter is a vowel, so it must be O. That means the fourth letter must be A. (We could also solve the fourth, then the first.)
S cannot be in positions 2 or 3. That leaves 5 and 6.
So with A--OSS, you may be able to guess, but just in case, position 3 can't be C. That solves everything.
ACROSS.
# logic for anti sag sit a nag
?What's with the Anti Sag Sit a Nag?
It has a few question marks, but the double A's help a lot. Slot 4 must be a vowel and 5 must be a consonant, making slot 1 an A. A(GST)(AI)(AI)(NS)(GNST)(NST).
We can try some gimmicks like placing G in slot 6, giving NGS or NGT or SGN or SGT, none of which make promising words. So AG(AI)(AI)(NS)(NST)(NST) and then SNT/STN clog up a bit, so AG(AI)(AI)N(ST)(ST).
There are also a few red clues, but AGAINST comes out of all this.
# logic for rude n nuder
?How do I decipher what to do with Rude 'N Nuder?
The YRPG? gives you a lot of clues. The question mark is a consonant, so it's N or R. The green is E, making the first letter U.
So, U--E(NR) has D in slot 3, and thus U(NR)DE(NR). URDEN is not a word, but UNDER is.
# logic for a bev o be ova
?What's this? A Bev O' Be Ova?
It has three question marks, but it is not bad at all.
Note that V must be in slot 4, and the vowel in slot 5 can't be A or O. That leaves E.
With E in slot 5, slots 2 and 3 can't be E, so that leaves -BOVE, or ABOVE.
# logic for morf form
?What's with the morf form giving question marks?
The ?RY? notation shows where the vowel is: O is in the third slot. That's a start.
Similarly, slots 1 and 4 are F or M, leaving slot 2 as R.
FROM is more likely than MROF. So there you go.
>>HARMS MARSH
# logic for null it unit
?How does the NULL IT unit operate?
The YRR?R suggests slot 4 is a vowel. As it is I or L, that makes it I. That makes slot 1 U.
So with U--I-, slot 3 cn't be L or N, so it is T.
That leaves ULTIN or UNLIT, so, UNLIT.
# logic for odd run on aura
?How do I deal with the odd run on aura?
The YRY?RR means there is a vowel in the fourth slot. R or U is, then, U.
Since slot 1 is a vowel but not O, is is A. So slot 3 is U. A-OU--.
Slot 2 can't be D or N, so it is R.
Slot 6 can't be N, which logically eliminates all but AROUND.
# logic for all noon gag
?What do we do with the all noon gag reading?
The ??Y?? looks intimidating, but the question marks give lots of clues:\n<pre>ALLNO\nONGAG\n??Y??</pre>
That leaves possibilities of (AO)(LN)(AO)(AN)(OG).
But only 1 and 3 can be A and O, so that makes 4 and 5 N and G, respectively.
Then 2 must be L. ONALG or ALONG are the only two left. ALONG is the only word of these two.
>>RIPE PIER
# logic for admits mist ad
?How do I get around the admits mist ad?
While the red text clinches it, you can also make hay with the settler readings.
The ?RYRRR is a big help, since we then know slot 1 must be a vowel, which must be A. That makes slot 3 I. A-I---.
Now A(MST)I(DMS)(DMS)(MT) is left, and this is tricky. The M in slot 4 or 5 respectively gives ASMIDT/ASIDMT. Things clump if it is in slot 6, ending with DSM or SDM. So it is in slot 2, making slot 6 T.
AMISDT or AMIDST means AMIDST.
>>CRIPPLE CLIPPER
# logic for whattar tawrath thatraw artthaw
?What is with the thickness sketchins?
Logan's poem on the Cripple Clipper may be confusing, too,but let's break it down.
<pre>WHATTAR\nTAWRATH\nTHATRAW\nARTTHAW\n?RRR?RR</pre>
Now it's frustrating to have two questions marks, but they must both be vowels. The only vowel is A, so ... A---A--.
But now we note there must be two T's, and T cannot be in slots 3, 4 or 6, pushing it to 2 and 7. AT--A-T.
There are three choices left here, based on if slot 6 is H, R or W, and it turns out ATHWART works.
>STORE V
>>LOATHER RATHOLE
# logic for pa egg pea peg a page
?What does _Pa Egg Pea_'s reading mean?
First, <b>Pa Egg Pea</b> gives ??R?. But it's about and by its author, <b>Peg A. Page</b>. That suggests the book is wrapped up in those four letters. The book is designed with "egg" split mid-word to give a 4x4 of author and book name. So the ? means one letter is right.
Here is how things look:\n<pre>PAEG\nGPEA\nPEGA\nPAGE</pre>
The third slot is red and can't be G, so it's P.
The first letter is P or G, meaning G.
That leaves GEPA and GAPE. GAPE.
# logic for eh at heat
?What can I do to move beyond Eh, At Heat?
The ?YRY suggests a consonant in alot 1. H or E means H. Then slot 3 is T, the other consonant.
Since slot 2 can't be E, it is A, making slot 4 E.
HATE.
# logic for race acre
?How can I get motivated to face the Race Acre?
The two question marks don't matter, because the red and green can be found logically.
The red is a consonant but not R, and the green is E. So, C??E.
That means we are left with C(AC)(CR)E.
CARE, since slot 2 and 3 can't be C.
>>BUSTLE SUBLET
# logic for sob ever verbose
?What about the Sob Ever Verbose?
The <b>sob ever verbose</b> gives YRR?RR?. Since it has three vowels, the question marks must both be vowels.
And in each slot, the only possible vowel is E. That means the other Y must be the final vowel, O.
With O--E--E, we have some tricky stuff with the consonants. But if we listen, we can hear some red stuff that is all wrong. That gives us OBSERVE.
# logic for stop post
?What about the stop post?
The <b>stop post</b> gives ?R??.
That makes the second slot S or P, since it can't be T or O.
But it does the same for the first: one of S or P must be right.
The third is O or S, and the fourth is P or T, but since the first and second can't be consonants, the third must be.
(SP)(SP)O(PT) is left. That means T must be in slot 4.
SPOT is right, and PSOT is not.
>>BOARDED ROADBED
# logic for a sty tasty say
?How do I properly deal with A Tasty Sty, Say?
It's optional, but it's not hard.
You don't particularly need to deal with the question marks, but it doesn't hurt. The Y makes it easy.
The first two letters can be figured logically: a consonant, but not T, is S. Then the other consonant is T.
Now one of A, S and T must be in slot 3. Only A is left.
You could also have figured Y was in slot 4 right away, since S and T, the only two consonants, must be in the first two slots.
So STAY it is.
# logic for l clear cellar
?How do I see L'Clear Cellar?
You can't, because it's clear. Oh, you mean if you scan it.
R?RYRR is what you get, so the ? must be a vowel, and since slot 4 cannot be E and most be A, slot 2 is E. So we have -E-A--.
But now slot 1 cannot be L or C, so it is R. Slot 3 cannot be L, leaving C. But then slots 5 and 6 only have L remaining. RECALL.
>>BOREDOM BEDROOM
# logic for me arts mr east stream tamers
?How do I decipher the ME ARTS?
The ME ARTS has a big long name. MREAST STREAM TAMERS.
The two question marks seem like a problem but aren't really. One must be a consonant, and one must be a vowel.
But note the first one has only consonants as guesses, and one must be right, so the second is a vowel.
The only vowel that could match up in slot 2 is A. That makes slot 5 E.
-A--E- is left, but the last consonant can't be M/S/T, so it is R. The second (slot 3) can't be M, and slot 4 can't be R. This isn't a big help, but with fewer than six possibilities left, you can guess around and get MASTER.
# logic for bortles lobster
?What about the BORTLES Lobster?
It gives ?GR??G?, which looks horrible...
...until you notice there are only two vowels, total. That gives -O---E-, and the rest are consonants.
In fact, each slot is one of two consonants.
(BL)O(LST)(TS)(LT)E(RS).
B must be in slot 1, R in slot 7. That leaves three possibilities based on what slot 3 is.
BOLSTER turns out to be the right one.
# logic for large regal lager
?How do I deal with the Large Regal Lager?
Pour it out on the curb in memory of your departed homies. Oh, wait, you want to get the last lousy point.
The question mark at the end means ELR, but it must be a vowel, so, E.
The rest is standard logic: the first consonant can't be L or R, so it is G. The remaining vowel in slot 3 must be E.
That leaves GRALE or GLARE, and while Nigel Molesworth might spell "grail" GRALE, Store V features passive verbs and this is a noun. Also, GLARE works great.
# logic for lead all a deed
?What do I do with _Lead_?
For <b>LEAD</b>, by the two authors, ???R looks painful indeed. But the red means a consonant which can't be D. So it's L. Fortunately, there are just three choices.
<pre>?A?L -> EADL\nA??L -> AEDL</pre>
So, ??AL = DEAL. You could, of course, use non-teach mode to knock this off. It'd put the consonants at the end and the vowels in the middle.
>>ECON CONE
# logic for praise spirea
?What's with the praise spirea and its two question marks?
The two question marks must be vowels.
Since 4 is I or R, it's I.
Since 2 can't be R or P and is a consonant, it's S.
That leaves four possibilities: (AE)S(PR)I(PR)(AE).
ASPIRE is the one that works.
>>UPSCALE CAPSULE
# logic for st al salt
?What about the salt?
The St. Al Salt can probably be figured without clues, but let's go through it anyway.
ST AL and SALT has R?R?. This gives no yellow or green, so the A must appear in a slot with a question mark, or the second. -A--.
Slot 4 is LT, slot 1 is LT and slot 3 is ST. That leaves TASL or LAST, which means LAST.
# logic for Sister Tressi Siters
?How do I figure out Sister Tressi?
Sister Tressi gives a couple question marks, but with all the vowels accounted for, we know the remaining slots must be consonants.
In fact, the second being a yellow/vowel and not I means it's an E, and thus the other vowel is an I.
Also, R is the only possible consonant in slot 1. RE-I--.
Here we see that slot 3 is S or 3, and slot 5 is S or E. So they're both S, and slot 6 is T.
RESIST.
Small note: we didn't even really need to use the question marks, here, to get RESIST.
# logic for marble blamer balmer
?How do I figure Blamer Balmer (in marble)?
Blamer Balmer has a bunch of question marks. And in, say, the final slot, it's odd there's a question mark for just R. So the question marks indicate many conflicts, but it's not too bad. Remember, there are only two possible vowels.
We know that the A can only occur in one place, because it's eliminated from slots 1 and 3, but the ?'s in 4 and 5 and 6 must be, respectively, one of BM, LE and ER, or the settler would just show red or yellow.
Therefore, A is in slot 2. Now we can see the possibilities left: (RL)A(BM)(BM)(LE)(ER). That's four possibilities total.
You can look for the red Mr. Beal and LeBram clues to nail things down.
Or you can notice there are only four choices: RABMLE, RAMBLE, LABMER, and LAMBER.
Ramble it is.
# logic for marble blamer mr beal
?How do I figure Blamer Mr Beal?
R?R??? looks unpromising, but if you write out the possibilities, you'll note a few things: RL/ARL/RLM/BME/AEL/ERL is what you have. If slot 2 is R or L, we get RLM/LRM..., which is not promising, especially since B must then go in slot 4. So A is in slot 2.
RL/A/BRLM/B/EL/ERL is left. That puts M in slot 3. RL/amb/EL/ERL can be guessed, but note L in slot 1 means LAMBER, then you have RAMBEL/RAMBLE. RAMBLE.
# logic for trance nectar
?Finally, what about the Trance Nectar?
Well, the R??YRR leaves you with a couple possibities for the 2nd/3rd slot. One vowel, one consonant.
Here a minimal bit of guesswork and grinding it out works.
-RA--- would mean CRAE(NT/TN) as there's a vowel in the fourth slot, and the first can't be N/T or R. So that doesn't work.
-EC--- would mean RECA(NT/TN) or RECANT.
>STORE W
>>LOFTIER TREFOIL
# logic for yo rend or deny rodney
?What is the deal with Rodney?
He is Yo-Rend-or-Deny Rodney.
With ??RR?R the letter Y has to be in slot 1.
There must be vowels in slot 2 and 5. Since 2 is O or R, make it O.
But now slot 3 can't be R or D, so it is N. Slot 6 can't be D, so it is R. Slot 4 must be D.
YONDER.
>>TOPSIDE DEPOSIT
# logic for dreads adders
?What to do with the ambiguous Dreads Adders readings?
The Dreads Adders give RY?RYR. The question mark must be a consonant, and since the choice is D or E, it's D.
That's the only clue you can get from the question mark, but everything else must give a wrong answer, so that helps.
There are only six possibilities left, but the ED SARD red clue forces the D to the 4th spot, and since S can't be in 6, it's in 1. SEDDAR or SADDER is SADDER.
>>SCOPE COPSE
# logic for bluster butlers
?How can I interpret the bluster butlers' clue?
R?RRR?? looks like garbage, but then there's only one consonant in the three question marks. If it were in slot 2, that would mean serious clogging.
So if one of L or U must be slot 2, we can assume U. Then slot 6 is E/R and 7 is R/S. But we need the E somewhere, so we get -U---E(R/S). That's as far as logic can get you. (LRST)U(BLRS)(BRT)(BLRS)E(RS) leaves a lot, though.
You can listen to the butlers, examine them or run past them to get other clues (TRUBLE'S, LES BURT, URL BEST), and since they could afford to be quieter, you may find SUBTLER anyway.
# logic for snider diners
?What about the snider diners?
The snider diners are the next to pop up questions, though you may not need to use question marks' flexibility to deal with them.
There are question marks at locations 2, 3 and 5. What does this mean? It means 2 and 3 are I or N. 5 must be E or R. Since 2-3 are I-N, that means R??R?R needs a vowel, which must be E, because I-N must be in 2 and 3.
You can switch to non-cheat mode to discover if it is I-N or N-I, or you can keep plugging away elsewhere. For instance, slot 1 can't be S or D--or N. So it is R. R(IN)(IN)(SD)E(SD).
Slot 6 can't be R or S, so it has to be D, leaving S in slot 4. R(in)(in)SED, and RNISED is out, so, RINSED.
# logic for Muscly Luc Sym
?How do Muscly Luc Sym's question marks shake out?
Muscly Luc Sym only appears if you are male, but his question mark should be pretty clear. There is no O or B, so therefore, the Y must be at the end. --U--Y, then, since there is only one vowel.
The remaining reds strike out possibilities pretty easily. (CS)(CLMS)U(LM)(CMS)Y.
But let's look for nonsense words. S in the first slot gives SMULCY/SLUMCY, so it's C. C(LMS)U(LM)(MS)Y.
If we work on slot 2, CMULSY and CSULMY aren't words, so it's CLUMSY.
# logic for Try Us Yurts
?How do I decipher the Try-Us Yurts?
This is one I actually made tougher than in a previous release, where it was a bit too easy in cheat mode. It's still not too bad.
First things first: the O puts the Y in slot 5. The U must be in slot 2 or 4, but we can't tell which.
(RS)(RU)(ST)(TU)Y is what we get. But there are only two possibilities to check.
SRTUY is not a word, so RUSTY it is.
>>BALDEST BLASTED SALTBED
# logic for fluster self rut
?What do the question marks mean for the fluster self rut?
R?RRR?R leaves only vowels in the question mark spots. The first is L or E, the second E or U. That makes -E---U-.
The fluster/self-rut cuts down a lot of possibilities, but now we can cut out even more with examining and so forth. TRU-SELF and FURLETS help a lot.
This, like many in store W, may have you reflect on the meaning of the final word. In this case, what is calm at the end? And with TRUSELF and FURLETS, you're left with REFTSUL and RESTFUL, e.g. RESTFUL.
# logic for traipse pirates
?What about the question marks for the traipse pirates?
The <b>traipse pirates</b> give ?YRRY?R, and slot 1 must be a consonant (T or P,) making slot 6 (E or S) a vowel. So slot 6 is E. That leaves (PT)(AI)(PST)(PRST)(AI)E(PRT).
That's all we can do with the question marks, but there is a lot of red text. You can talk to the pirates or try to go by them to see the red text.
We could also do some guesswork here.  Perhaps we could guess that adjectives are likely end in -er, and -aer is a bad ending.
That would eventually give us PASTIER.
# logic for docile old ice
?How does the docile old ice work?
The R?YRYR scan means letter 2 is O or L. Count the consonants and vowels, and it needs to be O.
Everything else is a wrong letter. That leaves (CL)O(IE)(CDL)(IE)(CDL), which you may be able to brute force.
Or you can examine twice, and you're reminded of LiedCo. That forces 1 to C and 3 to I, so COI(DL)E(DL). But 4 can't be D, so, COILED.
>>UNBLEST SUNBELT
# logic for dandier arid den
?How do I decipher the dandier arid den?
The dandier arid den appears to give two annoying question marks to start in cheat mode. In normal mode, the endorsers should wrap things up, but cheat mode's two question marks make things fall out even more nicely.
The ??YYRGR gives three known vowels and two consonants, so we need two consonants. A or D in slot 1 is D, and A or R in slot 2 is R. Also, slot 6 is E because of the green.
DR---E- seems much more manageable. Since slot 3 is a vowel and can't be I, it's A, and slot 4 is the other vowel, I.
DRAI-E- now has red in slot 5, so it can't be D from the arid den. It's N. DRAINED.
# logic for organised ego drains
?Those organised ego drains look tough!
That's part of why they are an LLP. They have the most possibilities, according to the script I wrote, of anything with ambiguous readings.
R?YRR?YRY has 2 as a forced consonant, R or G, and 6 is a forced vowel, A or I. That's not a lot of clues.
So there's not much you can do except examine them for red text. NO EGAD SIR and so forth work, but they take a while.
They eventually become GRANDIOSE.
>>ANEMIC CINEMA
# logic for angriest ingrates
?How do I resolve the question marks for the angriest ingrates?
Well, the ?PPRRY?R gives you two consonants right off the bat. And the first question mark must be a vowel, leaving the second as a vowel, too--or E.
So (AI)NG(ST)(RST)(AI)ER--the 8th slot can't be S or T--and this leaves four guesses.
There are a lot of clues if you listen, but brute force may be more effective, here. ANGSTIER.
# logic for resident trendies
?How do I navigate the resident trendies?
The R?RRY?R? presents a problem if we look at strict logic: slot 6 is a vowel, E or I, but then there are consonant-vowel differences.
We have (NDS)(ER)(DNRT)(DRTS)(IE)(IE)(DRTS)(ST). But note if slot 2 is a vowel, we have a lot of clogging, so we can call that E.
(NDS)E(DNRT)(DRTS)(IE/EI)(DRTS)(ST). Now this is where you may need to look at a lot of the clues. This has plenty, if you listen to what they have to say.
It can cut things down for you to where you have NERDIEST.
# logic for mardier admirer
?How do I get rid of the mardier admirer?
There are a lot of question marks!
The green is a big help, but you should also note there need to be 3 vowels total. So ???R?GR has a consonant in slot 3 (R or M), and that narrows things down.
In fact, only one of the first two can be a vowel or they'd both be A, and there's only one A left. But at least one must be, or we'd only have a maximum of two vowels in the final word. One of the first two must be A, so slot 5 is I.
With -----IE-, it's a bit easier, especially since we can figure where the R must be. Slots 1 and 2 form (MA) and (AD) and slot 7 can't be R. Therefore, slots 3 and 4 are R. --RRIE-.
That leaves ADRRIEM or MARRIED. MARRIED.
>>TREADING GRADIENT
# logic for replay player
?How do I tweak the Raves Saver, with its six letter clue?
It's not quite a raves saver. It's a REPLAY PLAYER according to the scanner.
This is one where having the non-cheat version shows a lot more, immediately. But going with cheat mode and a bit of logic can break things open.
First we note that Y is in slot 6. Since there is no O anywhere, and slot 4 (Y in Player) shows red, and no other question mark contains a possible Y, the Y must be in slot 6.
If we go through the question marks, we get (PR)(EL)(PA)(PL)(RPL)Y. But then slots 2 and 3 are the only ones that could possibly have vowels. So they must be E and A. That makes things easier. (PR)EA(RL)(PLR)Y.
So if we try R in slot 1, we get REALPY, which is not a word. PEA(RL)(RL)Y gives PEARLY.
# logic for sweatier wait seer
?What can I learn about the sweatier wait-seer?
The two question marks don't tell as much as we'd hoped: ?YYRY?RR gives SW in slot 1, IE in slot 6. But then, A must be in slot 3, since I and E are out. (SW)(IE)A(SWR)(IE)(IE)(SWRT)(SWT).
From here you may just need to grind out letters that can't work (W in slots 7/8 clogs, and W in 4 gives SEAWEERT with one E replaced by an I.) Then I in slot 2 gives WIA(SR)EE(SRT)(ST) which seems like nonsense.
WEA(SR)(EI/IE)(SRT)(ST) could give Weariest...or you could just listen to what the wait-seer has to say, with red text that helps cut down the possibilities.
# logic for mended mini denim
?How do I deal with the mended mini denim?
The two question marks in the Mended Mini Denim don't turn out to be very mysterious, with what you know from so far. Slot 1 must be D or M, and slot 3 must be N or I.
But wait! Slots 2 and 4 are the vowels, meaning 1 and 3 must both be consonants. That makes slot 3 N. Slot 2 must be E, and slot 4 must be I. This, -INE-.
Since slot 5 can't be M, we get MINED.
>>DANGER GARDEN
# logic for REB NOK bonker
?How do I sort out the (REB-NOK) bonker?
The unclear readings say little. There are two consonants and one vowel. We know the vowel must be in slot 5, but that doesn't help enough.
So let's look at what the possible options are: (BR)(BKNR)(EO)(KN)(EO)(BN). If we start with R, though, any word we make clogs at the start.
So we get BR(EO)K(EO)N. BREKON doesn't work, so BROKEN it is.
# logic for natives site van
?How does the natives' site van work?
There are two solutions.
The ?GYRYRR gives some clues right away. The first letter may or may not be N, but we can cheat and guess it must be, for one of the solutions. The second must be A.
NA(IE)(VS)(IE)(VST)(VT). But the V in the last two slots doesn't turn up anything close to a word. So...
NA(IE)(VS)(IE)(ST)T becomes NA(IE)V(IE)ST, or NAIVEST.
It's trickier to find the other solution, but talking to them gives a bunch of red text. That's a bit beyond deciphering the settler, but you get (NV)AI(NVS)E(NVS)T if you go through all the possibilities.
# logic for alarming grailman
?How do I navigate the alarming grailman?
He may be the second-trickiest of all the ambiguous-reading puzzles. He is the trickiest guardian/
With RYRRYR?R we can determine the remaining question mark is a vowel. Since the possible letters are N and A, it is A. That makes things -(AI)--(AI)-A-.
At this point, you may need to look for red letter clues. Liam Garn, his name, knocks out the vowels. -A--I-A-.
Unfortunately, anagrams were tricky to find, so I wasn't able to give many logic hints.
>>OBSCUREST SUBSECTOR
# logic for fries us fissure
?What is with the fries-us fissure's reading?
The PY??YYR  gives us one known letter, the F in slot 1, so that's a good start.
The two ambiguous readings must also be consonants, to make a total of four in the final word. F-SS---.
We have F(EU)SS(IE)(IE)(FR) left, then.
U can only be in slot 2, R in slot 7.
FUSS--R gives FUSSEIR or FUSSIER, so, FUSSIER.
>>LOST LOTS
# logic for sporties ripostes
?How do I deflect the sporties' ripostes?
First, note there are two vowels at positions 5 and 6, and one question mark in RR?RYYRR. So that question mark must be a vowel, O.
Slot 6 can't be I, so that gives us the vowels: --O-IE--.
Now, if you listen a lot, eliminating all the possibilities will lead to how to dispel the ripostes.
Or you can use brute force on the S's. Slots 2, 4 and 7 contain the two S's.
Now look at slot #4. If it is P, then -SOPIES- with (RT) doesn't work. If it is T, -SOTIES- again doesn't work. So let's try R in 7. -SOSIER- also has P/T left, which means no sensible words. This, S must be in the 7th place and R is in the 2nd. -ROSIES- is PROSIEST.
>>ACTIONLESS COASTLINES (GUARDING)
# logic for asset hit atheists
?How do I get past the atheists?
The asset-hit atheists are tricky. RY?R?YR?: You can see the fifth entry must be a vowel, because the third and eighth are choices between consonants.
That's a decent start, but the rest is tricky. Still, it gives you this: (HST)(AE)(SH)(HST)I(AE)(HS)(ST).
If you talk to them, "Set, it has" giving redness means the final entry must be T. With the settler and some educated guesses, not much is left.
# logic for lois the hostile
?What can the settler tell me about Lois the Hostile?
Lois the Hostile also has a question mark to start. ?GRYYRR means the first letter is a consonant, so, H or L. Then O is letter 2. (HL)O(HLT)(OIE)(OE)(ST)(HLST).
The vowels fall here. (HL)O(HLT)IE(ST)(HLST) and now if T is in slot 3, we get (HOL/LOH)IETS, which is nothing. So (HL)O(HTL)IES(HTL). Similarly L in the first slot gives two nonsense words. So we get HOLIEST.
# logic for hostile is he lot
?What can the settler tell me about Hostile-Is-He Lot?
The Hostile-Is-He Lot has ??RYYR?. Now this looks like a mess, until you realize that there must be two consonants and one vowel in the questions. Each of slot 1, 2 and 7 could be a consonant or vowel.
So what if 1 and 2 are consonants? Then we'd have HS----E, which is a mess. So 7 is a consonant, or T.
If 1 is the vowel, we have IS----T, which becomes IS(LT)OE(HST)T, or ISLOEHT. So 2 must be the vowel. HO----T.
That becomes HO(LT)(OI)(OE)(HST)T, or HOLIEST.
# logic for reading a dinger
?How do I ding up Reading: a Dinger?
The RR?YR?R scan means that the two question marks must be vowels. A and E, to be precise. That leaves I in the remaining vowel slot, so we're off to a good start.
The authors' names (Di Regan and Ned Riga) also cut things down a bit--in particular, they force the first and last letters, but let's go on without them.
With --AI-E-, we have (GN)(GRND)AI(RND)E(ND). N at the start clogs things, so we can go with G without much risk. Similarly, not many words start with GN or GD, so GRAI(ND)E(ND) gives GRAINED.
# logic for weirder red wire
?Can I do anything with the weirder red wire?
Yes, though you don't need to.
The reading is ?GRYR?R. But since slot 1 must be a consonant, we can count consonants and vowels to realize that slot 6 must be a vowel. E or R means E. Also, we can pick of slot 2, since it's green.
With -E---E- and a vowel in slot 4, we get -E-I-E-. Now from the settler's scan, 1 is W or R, and 3 and 5 can't be D. That means 7 is D. -E-I-ED.
There are three possibilities left, but RERIWED and WERIRED aren't words. REWIRED.
>>DOUREST DETOURS
# logic for dourest detours
?I've been redirected to the dourest detours! How can I get away?
The dourest detours need to be more exciting. They are, at first, R??RRYR.
Each question mark must be a vowel, since we already have four consonant slots known. That makes slot 3 U.
So (RST)(OE)U(DST)(DRST)(OE)(DR) is left. Listening helps here to get a lot of red. Or you could guess the first letter right.
>>RAWEST WATERS
# logic for earnest eastern neaters
?How can I call for the Earnest Eastern Neaters?
Grinding through the possibilities, we get (EN)(AE)(ARS)(RS)E(RS)(NST) to start.
But that lets a lot fall out. Since slots 4 and 6 are R or S, slot 3 must be A.
That makes slot 2 E. Then slot 1 is N. Then slot 7 is T.
NEA(RS)E(RS)T is NEASERT or NEAREST. NEAREST.
>>MISLIT LIMITS
# logic for pestern serpent
?How do I interpret the pester'n serpent scans?
The ?RYRG?? leaves a lot of question marks, but since the only vowel is E, you can knock that off quickly. And you also know all the ?'s are consonants.
So, --E-E-- is a start, even before navigating the question marks.
Then (PS)(PSTRN)E(RSN)E(RN)(NT) is left. That's really not too bad, despite slot 2 looking like it has a lot of possibilities. If you pick off the other ones, it goes quickly.
For instance, N in the final slot gives PTESERN. That's not a word, so we can put T there. (PS)(PSRN)E(RSN)E(RN)T.
Now we can pick off slot 4 a bit if we want. S gives PSE(RN)(RN)T, not a word, N gives PNESERT, and R gives PRESENT. PRESENT.
# logic for nastier stainer retinas
?How do I interpret the jumble from the nastier stainer retinas?
Ouch. Nasty! Four question marks seem like a lot. But if we deduce what we can from the question marks, we get this: (AEI)(NRS)(AST)(NRS)(IN)(AE)(RS).
Looking at slots 2, 4 and 7, though, these are the only places NRS can occur. So ... I is in slot 5, and T is in slot 3. (AE)(NRS)T(NRS)I(AE)(RS).
That's it for the question mark logic. So let's look at individual slots. If S is in slot 2, ASTNIER or ESTNIAR. If R is, ARTNIES or ERTNIAS. So N is in slot 2. (AE)NT(RS)I(AE)(RS).
ENTRIAS, ANTRIES, ANTSIER, ENTSIAR remain. ANTSIER.
# logic for curst palace
?What can I do with the curst palace?
Maybe not much with the clues ahead. This is a final puzzle and meant to be tricky. If you scan along the way, you notice slot 5 and then slot 11 have question marks.
Counting vowels and consonants--and noting slot 5 must be a consonant though it's a question mark--tells you a consonant is at the end, so you have an R there. That's a decent start.
In cheat mode the game also notifies you that the purples blink on alternately. So if R is right, then L is wrong. ----T-----R.
You'll need a few more clues from the surrounding scenery to fix stuff, if you want to do more scanning. If you help the Tetris Sitter, you can ASK her about anything and go in and out.
>>MESPRISE PREMISES
# logic for tetris sitter
?How can I decipher the Tetris Sitter?
With ?RYRRY, the first letter is a consonant, which is S or T.
But what of the others? The fourth slot is a consonant, too, but it cannot be R or T. That means it is S. But since the first letter is T or S, it must be T. T-(IE)S-(IE).
Since TT clogs things up, you get TR-ST-. TRISTE is a word, but TRESTI isn't.
>STORE Y
>>POSH HOPS SHOP
# logic for Lil Ps Pills
?How do I use Li'l P's Pills?
RRY?R gives us a lot to work with. Slot 1 can't be L or P, so it is S. Slot 3 is the only vowel, so it is I.
The rest are P, L or L, but there are only 3 possibilities where the P can be.
Of SLILP/SLIPL/SPILL, SPILL is the only actual word.
# logic for gins sign
?How do I do something with/to the gins sign?
A reading of ?G?R means that you have -I-(consonant) but you can figure the consonant.
It can't be S or N so it's G.
Now G can't be in slot 1 or 3, so it has to be the other letters--N for gins, S for sign. SING.
# logic for perma amper
?How do I neutralize the perma-amper?
The Perma-Amper shows you R?RYR in cheat mode. So there must be a vowel at location 2: a choice between E or M.
M's not a vowel, so slot 2 is E, but that leaves A (the other vowel) for slot 4.
That leaves (rm)E(m)A(mp) if we eliminate the consonants in Perma-Amper, or REMAP. Note this isn't too hard without figuring what the ?'s are for, but if you get it anyway, you may be able to look back and see why the question mark is there.
# logic for casper spacer
?How do I neutralize Casper Spacer or Capers Recaps?
Casper and the Capers both give clues consistent with each other, but Capers Recaps's result will help you a lot more. Together, they give a solution by force.
Casper Spacer gives ?RRYRY, meaning the first letter is a consonant, C or S. He doesn't match up well with the vowels you need. That's not very good.
# logic for capers recaps
?How do I do use the Casper and Capers clues together?
CAPERS RECAPS gives RRR??Y. That means either E or A is in slot 4, and the C and R in slot 1 are wrong. Along with the information about Casper, this tells us the word we need starts with S. Also, one of R/P is right in slot 5.
Note that slot 3 is a consonant but not P, C or (slot 1) S. So it is R.
S(CP)R(ae)(rp)(ae) then becomes SCR(ae)P(ae). SCRAPE.
# logic for lolstr trolls
?What do I do with the LOLstr trolls?
The one question mark must be a consonant, but the others eliminate a lot of letters.
In particular, the vowel is in slot 4, so the L's must be in slots 2, 5 or 6. We aren't sure if T or L is in slot 5, but if it is in slot 5, we get -L-OTL and SLROTL and RLSOTL are garbled.
So, L is in slot 5. -T-OLL, RTSOLL or STROLL. It's STROLL.
>>DISEASE SEASIDE
# logic for frat raft
?Why does the frat raft give so many question marks?
Well, it does give you one exact letter, which is T.
That leaves (FR)(RA)(AF)T. But the RAFT is already there.
You need to FART.
>>ANGER RANGE
# logic for hunter hunt area
?What to do to or with the HUNTER HUNT AREA?
This is a slightly intricate one, with all those question marks. Perhaps we can use some heuristics, though.
First, U is in slot 1 or 2. It could be in slot 3, but then we'd have HNU, which is very unlikely. That's a big help, as now we know there is only an E or A left to match with a question mark.
But what if slot 7 is A? Then we have --E--(HTN)A and, eliminating E and A from slots 4 and 5, --ETR(HN)A. UNETRHA or HUETRNA. So that doesn't work. So slot 7 is H.
But that gives us slot 1 and 2 by elimination. UNE---H, or UNE(AT)(ER)(NTH)H.
Then only slot 4 can hold A, slot 5 must hold R, and then slot 6 is left with T. UNEARTH. Though we need other preparation to progress in the game, this is the logic.
We could also note HAUNTER is in red, which helps with slots 1 and 2 immediately.
>>LEAN LANE
# logic for paw r wrap
?What to do with the Paw-R-Wrap?
The increased information from name brand actually makes the puzzle more difficult. Trivially more difficult, but more difficult.
The first thing to note is that A is in slot 2. It can't be in slot 3, which is a consonant, and the only undefined slot it could be in is slot 2.
But if we figure the remaining possibilities, we see (PW)A(RP)(RP).
WAPR isn't a word, but WARP is an action.
>>LAPSIN' PLAINS
# logic for span pans
?What's with the span pans' double clue?
You have ?R?R, which can nail down slot 4: a consonant that's not N or S. P.
Since P is taken, slot 1 can't be P, so it's S. S--P.
Now there must be a vowel, but it's not slot 2, so it's slot 3. S-AP. SNAP.
# logic for lapsin plains
?What else can I do in the plains?
The LAPSIN PLAINS give RRRY??. There is thus one vowel and one consonant to cover.
However, the only possible vowel is the I, which is in slot 5. This also determines slot 4. ---AI-, or ---AI(NS).
(NS)(NSP)(NSL)AI(NS) is what is left if you go through what LAPSIN and PLAINS eliminate. So then slot 2 is P, and 3 is L.
NPLAIS is not a word, but SPLAIN is, though slightly slangy. That's why it's an LLP.
>>ACHERS' ARCHES
# logic for achers chaser arches
?How do I navigate the achers' arches?
This seems confusing if you take the arches literally. RY?RRR needs a vowel in the third slot, but it should be H or C according to the question on the settler--except that they are also CHASER arches.
That gives you the vowel you need, and it drops the other vowel in place. (CHRS)EA(CR)(CHS)(CH) is left.
If R is in slot 1, we get REACSH. Not quite. So R is in slot 3. (CHS)EAR(CHS)(CH). If C is in slot 1, CEARSH. If H is, HEARSC. So S is. SEAR(CH/HC).
SEARCH.
>>END DEN (GLEANER)
# logic for general gleaner
?What do I need to do to the general gleaner?
The gleaner gives YRR??RY to start. That means slot 4 is a or e, and slot 5 is n or r. That at least letsus know if a consonant or vowel is in each question slot.
Here we're going to cheat a bit and assume A is in slot 4, because that forces 1 and 7 to E. E(nrg)(lrg)A(nr)(nrlg)E and here you may have to rely on some red text to cut things down. Al Green helps a bit. E(nrg)(lr)A(nr)(nrlg)E. You may need to brute force here: If R is in slot 3, you get EGRANLE, so it's L. From there, poking around should give ENLARGE.
>>PSALM LAMPS
# logic for natant ant
?Why does the ant give a question mark when I scan it?
Because it isn't just an ant but a NATANT ANT.
There are only six possibilities total, with two once you figure the A is in slot number 2.
And NAT would be a bit trivial. TAN it is.
# logic for plasm lamps
?What is with the general scanning here?
You get ?R?R?R, which looks confusing, but you can figure where the vowel must be.
Slot 3, as the A's are in slot 2 and 3, but 2 is a consonant. That cuts down the possibilities a lot, especially since slot 4 must be L or P.
Guesswork shows that L gives nonsense. So P(MS)AL(MS) it is, with PSALM.
>>TENFOLD TEFLON'D LOFT DEN
# logic for papery yapper
?How do I use cheat mode on the papery yapper?
The clues for the yapper are ?RY?Y?. That puts the Y in slot 1 or 6: we can't tell. But we do know where the vowels are. And since slot five can't be E, it's A. That makes slot three A.
But now slot 4 is a question mark, so it's E or P. E is taken, so it's P.
(py)(pr)EPA(ry) is left. That's enough to use brute force.
YPEPAR or PREPAY are the only two choices. PREPAY.
# logic for templar ramplet
?The templar ramplet that appeared--how to finagle it?
The templar ramplet gives ?RYRRRY. This is a tough hand, logically. It has the third most possibilities of anything with ambiguous readings in the game. But paying attention to how letters work together, a lot drops out.
You may guess that RM/RL/RT/RP are all highly unlikely starts for words, and you would be right. There are no such words of length 7. So T it is in the first slot.
Then the next letter is very likely R. Again, TL and TM and TP don't start any words of length 7. Well, there's tmesis, but that's the wrong length.
TR(AE)(ML)(MP)(MLP)(AE) remains and has six possibilities. You can guess, or reading will kill off possibilities.
LAMPERT as red text leaves TRAMPLE.
>STORE T
>>BLEARY BARLEY
# logic for bleary barley
?How do I get rid of the bleary barley?
The settler gives P??YRB -- the B you may not have seen before, but it has to be brown based on the upper window. Brown = blue + orange, and orange is Y.
B----Y and letter 2 is L or A, while letter 3 is E or R. You can use non-cheat mode to figure things out, or if you guess letter 2 is A, 3 has to be R to keep the number of vowels/consonants straight, leaving BARELY. On the other hand, guessing BLE--Y leaves only A and R as vowel and consonant, which is a word you already have.
B--ELY is BRAELY (nah) or --BARELY.
# logic for cinders
?The cinders are weird. What to do with them?
They're meant to be a tricky LLP. There are two things you can do with them, hence the question marks.
You may need a bit of word-logic here, but the R?RR??R leaves two vowels. If there is not a vowel in the second position, then we have clumping. So the question mark is a vowel, but it could force an I or an E, depending on what you can do.
Here you may also notice that one of the two verbs must have E in the fifth slot, because of the question mark, putting I in the second.
-I--E-- and with Sr Indec and Nrdices as clues, you can get close. The last lousy point is trickier, but once you know DISCERN, you know that all the question marks are because DISCERN is right. DISCERN will give you a few hints, but what about the other?
This requires a bit more trial and error. However, we know that slot 5 can't be E and slot 6 can't be R, or there wouldn't be question marks. That cuts things down. Also, we can assume that slot 2 is a vowel, but it can't be I, or the question mark would be definite. So it is E. The result is probably the trickiest puzzle of the game. You may have to do some guessing. But it IS a last lousy point.
>>DISOWNED DOWNSIDE
# logic for atmo moat
?How do I destroy the atmo-moat?
This one may be guessable, but let's look at it anyway.
With ??YR for atmo/moat, we know A can't be in slot 3, but since slot 2 is T or O, that leaves just slot 1 for A. Then slot 2 must be a consonant, or T.
AT(vowel)(consonant) means ATOM.
# logic for tearily-irately
?What is up with the macks discussing reality?
There are two solutions here. From the general theme, you can probably guess things end in LY. But from there, it's less clear. In fact, even the non-cheat settings gives question marks.
The ??GR?RO for reality suggests --A--LY, and the non-cheat suggests we don't know what the first two letters are. However, the cheat vs. non-cheat suggests that E or I in the fifth slot can be an answer, and general logic says R or T must be in the fourth slot. That gets us pretty close.
(IT/TI)ARELY, (IR/RI)ATELY, (ET/TE)ARILY, (ER/RE)ATILY.
From these eight we see TEARILY or IRATELY could both work.
# logic for formally
?What about the macks talking fly, moral?
The settler indicates two question mark entries should be consonants.
<pre>AFOLLYMR\nFLYMORAL\n?YR?YRRO</pre>\nIndicates the first letter shouly be F, and the second yellow with O in slot 5 tells us where the vowels should be.
FO--A--Y is remaining. That's twelve possibilities--well, a bit less if we assume it ends in LY. One of L and M is in slot 4, and if we assume L, we get FO(RM)LA(RM)LY, and neither of those work. But the other way we get FO(RL)MA(RL)LY, or FORMALLY.
# logic for steamily
?What about the macks talking about Misty Ale?
<pre>MAYISLET\nMISTYALE\nSLIMYTEA</pre>
The question marks at 1 and 7 can be intuited a bit. M(consonant) clumps. And slot 7 must be a vowel for the letters to add up right. So... S(MT)(AE)(AE)(MT)(EI)LY is left over. That puts I in slot 6, and with 4 guesses, you can use trial and error.
SMEATILY sounds like it could be a word, and SMAETILY and STAEMILY look weird, but STEAMILY works great.
# logic for silently
?How do I deal with the snit-yell?
The letter sequences that give the questions are snityell, sillynet and stylenit. These don't give a direct solution, but they eliminate a lot of possibilities.
S(INT)(ILY)(EI)(LNT)(LT)(LEI)Y if we go strictly by the book.
But we can guess L is in slot 7, because these are adverbs, and E is thus forced into slot 4.
A bit of trial and error can help here. S(INT)(ILT)E(LNT)(LT)LY is left. Let's place L in slot 5, giving us SNIELTLY. That doesn't work. What about T? SNIETLLY.
So N is in slot 5. S(IT)(ILT)EN(LT)LY is left. But T in slot 1 gives STIENLLY, so SI(LT)EN(LT)Y is SILENTLY.
>>LAMER REALM
# logic for stray satyr
?What can the stray satyr become?
The two question marks look tough, but the vowel is defined (slot 1) and the Y must be in slot 3 or 5 according to the question marks.
But slot 3 is R or T, so slot 5 is Y. That leaves A(RS)(RT)(RST)Y.
You can READ the satyr to find his name, or you can just try the three remaining possibilities based on slot 4: ASTRY, ARTSY, ASRTY.
ARTSY it is.
>>RECLUSION INCLOSURE
# logic for ideas aides
?Can I deal with Elmer and Merle as ideas' aides?
Yes. ?RYRY leaves us with (IA)/S/(AI)/(SD)/(AIE).
That gives us (AI)S(AI)DE.
ISADE doesn't work, so, ASIDE.
>STORE H
>>CURTIS'S COIN(S)
# logic for coins
?Why are the coins giving me such confusing clues?
The (plain) coins near the end are, unavoidably, confusing. That's because they can, like the USB, get a description and become a thing which has no letters in common.
In fact, the coins need to become two very different things. Hence all the question marks.
In this case, you may want to have scanned the coin beforehand, or take up the game's offer to scan a coin. Cheat mode should make it obvious what it should be: YRYP means (io)C(io)N or icon since i can't be in slot 3.
However, if you combine cheat and non-cheat mode, then you notice the fifth slot is the only fixed one. It is a consonant. That gives you the idea that the last letter must be S in one case and C in another, and what's more, the words share no other consonant/vowel space in common.
# logic for sonic coins
?OK, I changed the coins, and the settler's still weird on cheat mode. Now what?
The sonic coins need to be converted to something else. YRY?? leaves two consonants.
So one of I or N is the right consonant in slot 4: N. One of C or S is the right consonant in slot 5.
And also, the vowel in slot 3 can't be I, so it is O. That leaves I as the vowel in slot 1.
I(CS)ON(CS) remains, where ICONS wins over ISONC.
# logic for iqluckyluckyiq
?How do I power up the medals?
First of all, they're not primarily to be seen as medals. They say IQ and Lucky, which go back and forth.
So we have LUCKYIQ and IQLUCKY making some anagram. It scans R?YRRR?. So the question marks must be a Y and a vowel,
Since a Y is not possible in slot 2, it must be in slot 7. So slot 2 must be, between Q or U, a vowel. So it is U. Slot 3 is I, the remaining vowel.
And now, here's a fact you may or may not have been waiting all game to apply: U always comes after Q! In any case, Q would come before a consonant if it were anywhere else but in slot 1, which would be totally garbled. That gives us QUI---Y, or QUI(CL)(KL)(CL)Y.
That makes slot 5 K. QUILKCY doesn't work. QUICKLY it is.
but with a Y only possible in slot 7, we have ------Y. That means U must be in slot 2, leaving I in slot 3.
You may or may not have been waiting all game to use Q-U logic, but whether or not you did, well ... it's safe to try or assume QUI---Y.
Then QUI(CL)(KL)(CL)Y gives QUI(CL)K(CL)Y, or QUICKLY.
>>FILED FIELD
# logic for pipe panel lie pen app
?What does the pipe panel lie pen app become?
The clue is ?GR?YRRRY, which gives you the I in slot 2 right away.
But we can also note slot 4 must be a vowel so the number of consonants and vowels match up. -I-E-----.
Furthermore, four slots cnnot have P's. That leaves only three that can, for all three P's.
PI-E-PP--, and you should be able to guess, but just in case ... slot 5 can't be E, so it is A, making slot 9 E.
PI-EAPP-E now allows for two possibilities, but PINEAPPLE is the real word of the two.
>>CLANGIER CLEARING
# logic for melon
?Why does something like the melon give question marks?
The melon seems like it should not be that hard, but it pops up question marks even on non-cheat mode. What is going on is that, well, you need to talk to Len, and there are two ways to do it.
The RYR??/????? suggests that a M, E and L work in some cases but not in others. You can say LEN, MO or MO, LEN to get the melon.
While this is tricky, there are a lot of other ways to get points, so I hope it's not too disappointing that the settler conks out, especially since it is five letters--and one solution simply switches two. And actually asking Len, or noticing he is part of "Melon," makes it a bit easier to ask for what you need.
# logic for prices precis
?How do I figure the Prices Precis?
Well, the letters that match are a big clue. And the question marks must be vowels.
We get -R(IE)-(IE)S but then slot 4 can't be C so it is P.
CRIPES or CREPIS. CRIPES.
Incidentally, before this was just PRICES, and the cheat setting was enough to determine the right word exactly. But I think it's easy enough here.
# logic for no ammo gang
?Can I make friends with the No Ammo Gang easily?
Yes. The two question marks don't mean much. In fact, they give good information.
Divide the words as NOAMM / OGANG. Then O can't be in slot 1, which is a vowel. So A-O--.
Also, G must be in slot 5. It can't be in slot 2, and the question mark means MN is in slot 4.
That leaves ANOMG or AMONG. Now, AN OMG is ... possible, but AMONG is a better way to mingle.
>>SCAPE SPACE
# logic for reserved deserver dr severe
?What should the inapt paint become?
With more than five letters, it's what it says.
The inapt paint says DESERVER RESERVED. It has a lot of question marks, but all three vowels are green in cheat mode, and one consonant even works out, giving you
-E-ER-E-
(dr)E(sv)ER(sv)E(dr) is rather easy to sift through, since there are only four possibilities. REVERSED.
# logic for naa na b a banna
?Is a banna that tough, with all those question marks?
Not really. Naa Na b / a banna has only one vowel, A. So you can figure a bit out.
#skipstart
>MISCELLANEOUS EXAMPLES
>>VOLT MAZE
# logic for volt maze
?How do I solve the volt maze fully logically?
First, what is a vowel and what is a consonant? You can scan anywhere.
<font face="courier new">&nbsp; 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8
m . x . x . . x .
a x . x . x x . x
z . x . x . . x .
e x . x . x x . x
l . x . x . . x .
t . x . x . . x .
o x . x . x x . x
v . x . x . . x .</font>
VOLT MAZE ditches some possibilities. So do two of the architects: Olav Metz and Zemo Valt. As does the brad: EZ-Ol'-Av'(TM). Everything is red, thus eliminating some possibilities.
<font face="courier new">&nbsp; 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8
m . x x x x x x x
a x . x x x x x x
z x x . x . . x x
e x x x . x x x x
l . x x x . . x .
t . x x x . . x x
o x x x x x x . x
v x x . x x x x .</font>
Let's look at the vowels: only A can be in slot 2, leaving only O for slot 7 and E for slot 4.
<font face="courier new">&nbsp; 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8
m . x x x x x x x
a x + x x x x x x
z x x . x . . x x
e x x x + x x x x
l . x x x . . x .
t . x x x . . x x
o x x x x x x + x
v x x . x x x x .</font>
But how can we knock out some of the consonants? VZT, Lame-O! knocks out no possibilities even though it is red text. The guys at the end give special hints:l-to-v maze is a big hint, too...you notice it starts at L and goes to V.
Then if you meet Zo Mavelt and note he's red, you get no further clues. But he's there, if you need him.
Tom Avlez is the next person you see going through the maze.
<font face="courier new">&nbsp; 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8
m . x x x . x x .
a x . x x x x . x
z x x . x . . x x
e x . x . x x x x
l . x x x . x x .
t x x x x . . x x
o x x x . x x . x
v x x . x x x x .</font>
There aren't very many possibilities left, now! But Lev Tzoma is the final guy you'll find. He knocks a few out.
<font face="courier new">&nbsp; 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8
m . x x x . x x .
a x . x x x x . x
z x x . x x . x x
e x x x . x x x x
l x x x x . x x .
t x x x x . . x x
o x x x . x x . x
v x x x x x x x .</font>
Now let's see: A must be in slot 2, leaving O for 7 and E for 4.
<font face="courier new">&nbsp; 1 3 5 6 8
m . x . x .
z x . x . x
l x x . x .
t x x . . x
v x x x x .</font>
Also, m must be in slot 1. Z must be in 3. That leaves T for slot 6. That leaves L fo 5 and V for 8.
#skipend