out=roiling-invisiclues.htm
!A Roiling Original HTML Clues
->c:/games/inform/roiling Materials/Release
>General
?Does the male/female option have any practical difference?
Well, one. It changes one guardian in one area. It also changes the names/genders of some people you'll meet or hear of.
Spoilers ahead, but not really.
Dr. Yow's gender is the same as yours.
The tarred trader is Red Rat Art Erd or Dr. Tera Darter.
The smart kid is Dirk Stam or Kim Darst.
The person on A Droll Dollar is Lord Al Ollard or Dr. Lola Ollard.
The south exit from the Coastline, in Store W, features either Lois the Hostile or the Hostile-Is-He Lot.
The Deal Seer west of the Strait is Lars Eede or Elsa Erde.
There may be an embarrassing bug where a female NPC is referred to as male, but I hope not. I searched pretty thoroughly, I guess/think. If you find one, I'll fix it and give you credit.
Also, if any animals are referred to as male, let me know, as that's a potential bug. I tried to leave them gender-neutral.
>MEANS MANSE
>>Study
?What do I do here?
Just examine stuff to get an idea of what the game is about.
And what your powers are.
The item names should be a clue.
A rich chair, pedanto-notepad, the sad ads.
You may note the book titles as well.
The diorama probably clinches it.
You need to find three pieces of evidence that tell you about your power to further the story.
You can look at the bookshelf, take the notepad, consult the notepad, try to "flip" something successfully, examine the diorama, or flip something in the diorama.
You can also THINK, which acts as two pieces of evidence.
You may also notice something curious about the location names, if you looked ahead in this document.
You probably figured it out by now, but your power is to turn things into anagrams of themselves.
?Short answer: what is my power, anyway?
You have the ability to anagram things magically.
?What is the knock at the door?
Someone to see you. You can find out if you open it, or you can wait a few turns.
?What should I talk to Gunter about?
The first discussion is the main one. Everything after that is babble.
You'll discover the latches after you wake up if you didn't already.
?It's dark! Where can I get light?
The palm soaked up light during the day.
Wait and stumble around a bit.
The game gives hints, often misspelled, which clue your special power.
Do you notice P-A-L-M or some permutation in each clue?
What is one that would give light?
LAMP.
You will take it automatically.
?What's the pedanto-notepad good for?
You will track hints and procedural stuff as the game goes by. It'll even remind you of stuff you couldn't yet flip.
?What is the op-ed good for?
A better question is, what isn't it terrible for?
It's a bit longer than most op-eds.
It's pretty much propaganda, by Elvira, for Elvira.
Hopefully it is good for a few laughs.
?What are the latches for?
The list that comes with them is a clue.
Do you notice how the words are similar?
Adjacent words have their first and last letters flipped.
So, latches can become...
SATCHEL.
?What does seeing red mean?
It means that all the letters in the current object or its description are wrong compared to what they should be.
?How do I get out of here?
The tables and the ten beams hide ways out. So is "my niche" on the ceiling.
What are other rooms in a mansion? And what is something that leads up
The TABLES become a STABLE you can enter, but it's intermediary...
...and so is the CHIMNEY...
...because you can just bypass them and go directly to the BASEMENT, which is a longer/harder puzzle to find.
?What is the giant pin for?
It's an optional last lousy point.
If you use the settler on it, in cheat mode, it may be obvious what it is.
Last hint before a spoiler: it can become something more usually on a wall, and that gives hints of how to get other places.
The pin can become a PAINTING.
?How do I neutralize the oafs?
There are only twenty-three possibilities.
In fact, with the settler on cheat mode, there is only one. Without it, there are four.
But wait! Your dusty study doesn't need a sofa...
...which is okay since there are no oafs, anyway. However, if you wish to play a game with oafs in it, my IFComp 2014 game Ugly Oafs has lots of them!
>>FARMING FRAMING
?What's the sitar for?
It could be sitars...
Or rather STAIR or stairs.
?Can I build the stable/framing back up again?
No.
>>HIGHEST HEIGHTS
?What is this pram doing?
It gives you a slow sinking feeling.
What else is slowly sinking with the letters P-R-A-M?
And, if you examine it, has nothing in common with Mr. Pa?
The pram can become a RAMP.
?How do I use the closest closets?
Enter them to go back to the study. You'll see them everywhere in your manor once you know where to look.
Or if in you're the study, you go to the heights.
>>LARGELY ALL-GREY GALLERY
?Stria?!
Above you...an odd word, but another way to walk around.
STAIR.
?What are the ISBN bins for?
Well, you can ignore them and still win. They don't add anything.
Except a last lousy point for an odd word.
They're unlocked, but you can change that.
Make a SNIB.
?Anything remaining to do in the basement?
Figure how the letters settler works, though you don't have to, as you'll get a tutorial.
Then go IN.
?Help! There's a guy with a gun!
Well, it's not just any gun. It's a RIFLE.
You won't make it to the rifle in time, and he doesn't seem too enthusiastic to shoot it, so maybe you can use some magic?
The name is in red, which may help eliminate possibilities.
The rifle with the bullet with your name on it...
...can become a FLIER with your name on it.
Now that you've shown your powers, your former (apparent) antagonist will be more friendly to you.
?What can Elmo tell me? Do I need to listen?
You can solve the game without Elmo, but he can tell you how to use the settler if you're not sure. It's a de facto tutorial about the settler
You can also ask Elmo about the areas ahead.
>>Carven Cavern
?What's with the plates?
They appear to be embedded in the plaster.
They are sort of square, with metal trim around them.
What is metal and looks like half a square?
STAPLE.
?What's with the plaster?
You need to get rid of it, somehow.
If you did something with the plates, it'll be a bit easier to know what to do with the plaster.
The settler gives you three letters.
What does a staple (plates) go in?
The plaster becomes a STAPLER.
?Stupid act-ruin curtain! How can I get rid of it?
Well, it looks like lined paper, with the holes and the lines.
You can hook it back through the holes in the upper left.
PUT STAPLE IN STAPLER.STAPLE CURTAIN.
>The Settler
>>Basic Use
?Can anyone in-game help me?
Yes. If you leave the basement, you get a de facto tutorial.
?What are the different colors on the settler for?
We'll assume you're not in cheat/teach mode now.
If you examine the settler, the graphic shows different colors.
More fourth-wallishly, you can see the game's title.
Look at items on the diorama.
What sort of letters do reds go to? What sort of letters do yellows go to?
Reds go to consonants. Yellows go to vowels.
?What's the diorama good for?
It can't be changed, but its components can.
The pedestal/steel pad and brass crag/crabgrass give good clues.
?What is cheat mode good for?
Reds may become purples. Yellows may become greens. But it's a bit rare.
What makes a color add blue to it?
Try scanning the brass crag and crabgrass.
bRAss crag, cRAbgrass change colors.
Those two letters are already in the right place.
So purple = consonant in the right place and green = vowel in the right place.
This is obviously very powerful with relatively few vowels/consonants. The right guesswork can logically eliminate a lot.
?I found an orange/brown letter!
If you know what red/yellow are, maybe you can reason what orange could be.
Or you could note a special unusual letter in that word.
Also, orange = red + yellow.
What letter may be a consonant or a vowel?
The letter Y.
So orange/brown is a bit of a gimme. Though it is rare.
?What's the slider for?
If you switch it, you'll see red when you totally guess wrong.
You only get a limited number here, but not seeing red is a sort of clue, too.
?What's the Equals Sign for?
If cheat mode is on, it warns you if the clue might make things too easy.
In fact, for certain puzzles, it warns you even if cheat mode is off.
That's a clue in itself, perhaps.
My evaluations of what makes a puzzle too easy are a bit subjective. However, I wanted to mitigate total spoilers, or give the player a chance to pause and think on the easy ones, so I added this.
>STORES
?Which stores are useful?
The megaton magneto-montage acts as a directory.
K and N are optional. P, U, V, T, W and Y are useful.
?What is the approximate order of difficulty?
Of the stores you can enter right away, U is easiest, then V, then P, then Y, then W.
Y's individual puzzles may be the easiest, but it's got quite a few.
T is not so tough, due to its theme, but it's last. H is hopefully cake once you've got T. H has its own theme, which will be kind of obvious.
?What does store H become?
You can't do anything with it until after you solved the game.
The "extra good ending" is behind it, but the hoster won't let you in.
You may've guessed it was OTHERS.
?What does store P become?
Well, it becomes a sort of vortex, but you need a magic word, according to the poster.
Store P, Poster...
P-E--O with the settler on cheat mode. And you can eliminate others to get...
...PRESTO!
?What does store T become?
Some kind of water animal.
OTTERS.
?Why can't I enter store T?
It's the final scenario, where Elvira waits.
Well, one store has to be.
?What does store U become?
The settler, with cheat mode on, solves the vowels.
Roads, but with signs.
ROUTES.
?What does store V become?
The settler, with cheat mode on, solves the vowels.
Something valuable and glittering.
TROVES.
?What does store W become?
The settler, with cheat mode on, isn't much help.
If you look at it right, it seems taller than the others. It's not just an optical illusion.
It also seems to split in two.
What's tall and plural?
TOWERS.
?What does store Y become?
The settler, with cheat mode on, solves the vowels. And the letter Y.
It's something seawatery.
OYSTER.
>>STORES K AND N
?Why are K and N smaller than the others?
They're a totally optional subquest.
?What's store K?
This is a bit of slang. I let it go for a reason. Suspicious smelling smoke.
KT Rose is a clue and it should be enough, abstractly...
...to get TOKERS.
?What's store N?
You need to figure the guy's name.
Again the settler logics this one, but clues like underwater and Tintin may help.
NESTOR.
?What's the mangiest steaming? What's in it?
The steaming is a byproduct of the tokers' activities.
Inside the steaming is the start of a small unnecessary side quest. Enter it to find out.
>>>CRUELEST LECTURES
?What's with the tedious lecture and studio E and "I used to?"
They're clues to how to disrupt this whole joint. Ha ha. Joint, geddit?
This is a wild card word.
Your settler gives a huge clue if you look in studio E.
OUTSIDE.
?What's with the munchies?
They aren't an actual game item, but they will help you use the slider on the settler more often.
>>STORE B
?What's in here?
Some sort of food. It looks sort of misty--cold misty.
SORBET.
>STORE P
>>GREY GYRE
?What do I do here?
Look around. There are quite a few exclamations.
Many of the things you need to get are relatively short words, so maybe you can figure it out by accident.
Interjections are what work here.
?Poor lamb! What can I do?
Maybe you can scare him off without being mean.
Turning him into balm won't give him balm.
You can, however, make a scary noise.
BLAM.
?How to get over the hump?
You're grunting wrong.
UMPH.
>Do I have to tackle that maze to the north?
You don't even have to set foot in it, if you figure the right word. It's a tricky one, but there are a lot of clues. You may even wish to eat the crust once you've cleared everything else.
See the Volt Maze section below.
?The maze is gone now. Why can't I go north?
The ether hides enemies. If only you could point them out...
...saying THERE.
That doesn't quite work, though, without ammunition.
Don't continue until you've fixed the popgun.
Also, did you find the dart?
PUT DART IN POPGUN.
>>AUSTERER TREASURE
?How do I reach YE HOOP?
If you try to take it, your possessions weigh you down. You can't find the right way to ditch your possessions for a second.
Say POOH...
...or, to really do the job, say PHOOEY.
?What can the censer be?
Onyx is out, as is onyx censer.
The green semi-text on black may be a clue.
It becomes a SCREEN.
>>BURNT BRUNT
?What's in the dumpster?
A dart. It's frustrating to get. You'll probably get it as soon as you give up.
Or say DRAT.
?How do I get the star?
Again, you'll probably get it as soon as you give up. But you can't just give up on purpose. You must be legitimately frustrated.
Say RATS.
?Can I budge the yak? Or the yoke?
Not til you've been in the shack. The yoke and yak are no joke. Jack.
You need to gain the yak's trust. It looks herbivorous.
Seen anything eatable and plant-y?
The flea, when changed to a leaf, is edible. Well, for a yak.
But you don't just want to give the leaf to the yak.
If you've got the skid, you can put the leaf on the skid, then push the skid south to the brunt. The yak will walk on it.
?The yak's moveable now, but how to get rid of the yoke?
The yoke has a safety, so if it's jarred, it'll snap.
There are three ways to do things.
First, you can just push the skid back north. The narrow/magnetic entry will unlock the yoke.
Second, if you flipped the escaroles, they become good food for Leo and Rand. You can go south and give them a workout!
Third, you can take the bad book from the shack and give it to the yak, who gets indigestion.
You may or may not know what to do with the drab yoke. The exciting conclusion is in the Shack section.
>>MARINES SEMINAR
?What do I do with the pop-gun?
It's PG-on-up, but twiddling that does nothing.
The boing mechanism could use a moment of discovery.
So say BINGO to get it working.
>>DIRGE RIDGE
?Who's this Leo and how can I avoid him?
He's too clumsy to get you, but maybe you can get him good.
He does bull at you.
OLE.
?Oh no! Rand joined in!
He doesn't look too smart, like he can be fooled by a feint.
If you say DARN, it will get him.
?Oh no! I hurt their feelings!
They do talk about how they're washups. Their dialogue also cues other words.
Say WHASSUP to get in their good graces.
?Are they going to follow me everywhere?
Well, until you get close to the end.
And not into the volt maze. You have to go there yourself.
>>NOWT TOWN/VOLT MAZE
?Why can't I enter the maze yet?
You need to get a few points and figure out what's going on.
?Do I need to go through the volt maze? How many times?
No. You need to figure a word or phrase. There are two. The easy and hard way.
The maze entry zany meter should give some clues.
The zany-1 and zany-2 ways get toy through
?What's the easy way?
Nowt Town can be dispelled with a specific word.
It's not strictly a common interjection, but interjections are used to show intense emotion. Many interjections were once one word, or two words squashed together.
In this case, you don't want to go through the maze, and you're not going to.
WONT.
?What's the hard way?
This is a tricky one, but there are a lot of clues.
Touching the walls or reading E-Z Ol' Av will give a clue.
Scanning the fellows in the Unwary Runway helps, too. There are three. When you scan the first two with cheats on, a new one will appear next time through.
There should be some clues about Yiddish language or phrases.
You can say MAZEL TOV at any time.
?Is there any advantage to the hard way?
You get an extra point, if you're interested in that sort of thing.
?I took the hard way but still lost a point from the maximum. What gives?
You scanned a fellow in the Unwary Runway for an additional clue.
>>SAPS' PASS
?How do I deal with the hogs?
You can annoy them or get their keys.
The hogs look up for heavy duty swears, and they'll probably be annoyed by mild expressions.
You can pretend you don't really want the keys by saying SYKE...
...or you can bug the hogs by saying GOSH.
Either way, the hogs get mad at you, tire themselves out chasing you, and leave the keys open for Rand and Leo.
>>PHAT PATH
?What are the harpings phrasings for?
They're in all caps, not letting you get in.
Well, Leo and Rand, especially.
You need to relieve them of their duties. They don't belong in the shack, but they have a hard time leaving. You all had fun together.
The three sentences anagram to clumps of letters.
You only need two of these three to move on.
TOUGH...
...LATER...
...SO LONG.
?Is the hawt thaw significant?
Not strictly. It's only necessary to get maximum points.
It's really weird, though. It barely makes any sense at all!
If you take a good hard look at it, you may want to say WHAT.
>>HACKS' SHACK
?There's a lot to do here! What's my ultimate goal?
Write a computer program.
Note that you can change stuff to stuff since it is out of the scope of SHATTER-THREATS.
?What's the CLOCK SAP for?
Hm, THE GAME DESCRIBES IT WITHOUT LOWER CASE LETTERS.
It makes a CAPS LOCK key.
Once you have a keyboard, you can PUT CAPS LOCK IN KEYBOARD.
?The gum?
Aw, c'mon. If you got here, this is a gimme!
Ugg, umm...
It becomes a MUG.
?The flea?
Something else organic.
Make it a LEAF.
?The pile of coal?
A good source of energy. Dirty and short term, but hey.
More important it's coal than a pile...
...so it's COLA.
Once you've got the bottle, POUR COLA IN MUG for an endless supply.
?The disk?
Well, it has portability etc.
It can become a SKID...
...then flip back later.
You'll need to move the skid around, unsurprisingly. Use the PUSH command.
However, once you've gotten rid of the yak, you'll want to flip the skid back to the disk for good.
?The slab?
Not important by itself, but you can put computer components on it as you find it.
The screen and the keyboard, in particular.
?The fount?
It's dry but restful.
FUTON.
?The trim socks?
These aren't critical, but if you figure them, good job.
They help the computer run a bit faster.
ROM STICKS.
?The escaroles?
They are not critical to the game, though they provide a slightly easier alternate solution.
Make 'em into something more workmanlike, less froufrou. More nourishing.
CASSEROLE.
There is too much for you to eat. Maybe a friend or friends can.
?The scratch paper?
You can't do anything yet.
You may notice the polemic by Mel Copi.
It will teach you how to COMPILE, later.
?The textbook?
It's not useful til you need to program, then you'll use it automatically.
So, yeah, it's mostly for amusement.
?The horrible book? (Note: there are five possible titles)
It's an alternate solution.
It also clues that you need to make a KEYBOARD.
If you've got the yak on the skid...
...you can GIVE BOOK TO YAK, and the yak reacts with indigestion and runs away. Click ahead for all five book names.
<i>Day Broke</i> by Rob Adkey, <i>eBay Dork</i> by Kary Bode, <i>Bred Okay</i> by Bad Korey, <i>Dear Koby</i> by Yoda Berk, and <i>Yo, Be Dark</i> by Dr. Bo Kaye.
?How do I work the hard drive?
You need the keyboard to work, first. Then it needs to go on the slab.
You also need to have put the screen on the slab.
Switch the skid back to the disk, too, and you're ready--but there's a stupid error.
There's a TO BE OR button. You want to push it, but you're not sure what it's for.
Once the disk is in, and the keyboard's attached, REBOOT or PUSH REBOOT.
?How do I get a keyboard?
See the Burnt Brunt section.
?Great. I have the drab yoke. What to do with it?
Its scratchings contain 26 letters, all the numbers and punctuation.
It can become a KEYBOARD.
?What do I do with (what the yoke became)?
PUT KEYBOARD ON SLAB.
You can try to run things now, but you run into a case sensitivity error.
PUT CAPS LOCK KEY IN KEYBOARD.
You still have more to do, but this is a start.
?Why am I trapped in here?
You're far enough along, you don't need to go outside to solve the Presto Area.
You may be cut off from getting maximum points (for instance, if you didn't help the lamb), but I wanted to ensure the player they were close to the end.
?What's the TBA key?
TBA is not just TBA.
It's a TAB key. It helps with programming and formatting, but it's not critical.
?Help! I can't work the polemic!
First, you need to COMPILE, but you're too tired to get it to work. You're annoyed by the Speel, slipping on peels.
The cola won't help. You need to crash.
Or SLEEP.
?The program still won't budge!
Of course. It never works at first.
Now you're awake, you've got the energy to DEBUG.
?What do I need to do with the USB?
It'd be nice to have transport out. And you have two options! Lucky you.
There are only five possibilities. So you have a forty percent chance with a random first guess.
You have no particular reason to visit Boise State University, the Universal Bank of Switzerland or St. Bonaventure University. (Thanks, acronymfinder.com!)
You can take a SUB or BUS out for slightly different alternate endings.
>STORE U
>>ABOVEGROUND
>>>SAME MESA
?Is the worst ad good for anything?
It's bad for society in every way. Err, I mean, it's a last lousy point.
You can pick it off as long as the giant or the bean aren't present. If you get it first, you get a clue to the area. You may not need the clue, but it's there.
RADWOST or WORST AD shuffled gives...
TOWARDS.
?How do I get into the church?
Going IN is not formal enough.
Read the scripture picturers.
DIE SIN.
You can switch them to make SIN DIE. Which helps, if you use the settler.
Going IN is simply not enough.
You need to go INSIDE.
?How do I get into the restaurant or the store?
Hmm, Pat's and Oscar's.
If you haven't scored a point yet, you might not know what to do with these.
If you have, you know this area relies on prepositions.
Pat's--you need to go PAST.
Oscar's--you need to go ACROSS.
?What is the bench for?
It's <i>a giant's</i>.
That means you can lean AGAINST it.
But you need to have visited the cleric circle and seen the reagent list first.
?The giant is here. How do I do stuff with him?
He blocks trying anything else that moves the story forward.
You can't climb directly on the bench, but the armrest is thick enough to sit on.
Get ASTRIDE it.
Once you do, you can't leave, but you don't have to.
Avoid his elbow next.
You need to go BELOW.
Next, he pulls out a copy of Rude 'N Nuder.
You need to hide UNDER, and he will give up and leave it behind.
?I helped Brother Horbert and came back, but what's the thing in the sky?
Don't develop another hint in this question or the next unless you see it.
It's a thing form above, and that's not a typo.
Make it a thing FROM above.
?What's with a drama armada?
They're all staring at the bean. What clue can it hide? Where?
You need a good first word to tell the crowd what to do.
THE BEAN holds something under it. Wait, we've done UNDER before.
Something BELOW it. Wait, that's been done too.
BENEATH.
>>>CLERIC CIRCLE
?What is there to do here?
See on the wall--there's a list of three things you need for a magic potion.
You'll need to examine it, to see what to do.
Come back once you have all three items.
>>>IDLE DELI
?What should I say to Pat?
Not much. Well, just one word. It's the seed pit that's important.
?What to do with the seed pit?
It's where PETS DIE.
Pat discourages you from entering the seed pit. IT'S DEEP.
What's a preposition that counters something that's been said?
DESPITE.
Now you have the mushrooms--another third of the reagents needed in the church.
>>>ADOBE ABODE
?What should I say to Oscar?
Not much. It's the pipe soot that's important.
?What about a trashy ashtray?
It's holding pipe soot! But you can't just up and steal it.
It's on the other side of Oscar.
Position yourself OPPOSITE, and you can take it behind your back without him looking.
>>BELOWGROUND
>>>HARMS MARSH
?What do I do with the sheol-holes?
Not fall into them.
Directions don't help, so you need to be more circumspect.
?Help! It's almost too dark to see!
This is a three-part puzzle.
You have no light, and your lamp was broken a long time ago.
You can say it was dark and <i>unlit</i>, before...
...I mean, UNTIL.
?Where do I go? How do I find a trail?
Remember, you were told you need to NAG OL' NO-GAL LOGAN. There's an UN-ROAD you need to use to get there.
So, first, you need to look AROUND.
You're on your way to finding him, now.
Then, you need to go ALONG.
>>>RIPE PIER
?What's with the mist?
Well, it's also DA MIST, if you read the sign. That allows for two solutions.
One is thinking of DA MIST helps you feel more familiar, and you can go...
AMIDST.
The other is to listen to the voice yelling ABROAD.
Again, not much is shuffled.
ABOARD.
>>>CRIPPLE CLIPPER
?What do I need to look for?
The Hit Win button Ben hid.
There are two solutions here.
WITHIN will reveal it.
As will BEHIND.
?How do I get past those two--things?
You don't want a Thor-Hug, and the New Beet looks lethal, too.
Again, you have a choice of two things to focus on.
THROUGH will get you past Thor and the beet.
BETWEEN will get you past the beet and Thor.
>STORE V
>>LOATHER RATHOLE
?What do I do here?
The self-help book tells you IT IS A WAY TO THINK.
Standard actions don't work.
You need to think straight.
Spoiloplis is about passive verbs.
?How do I get heat?
Hm, heat.
Burning anger may be literal and figurative.
Or burning HATE.
?I'm not emotionally invested enough to race!
Of course not! You need to CARE.
The game then mentions that emotion alone won't do it. Time to get more analytical.
?What do I do with Pa, Egg, Pea?
You don't have to do anything.
It's by Peg A. Page. It's about Peg A. Page. It profited Peg A. Page when sold.
Okay, I think I beat this into the ground.
GAPE at it.
>>BUSTLE SUBLET
?What's the stop post for?
It can't turn into POTS or TOPS. Or expand your OPTS.
It will help you SPOT. But you need to get rid of the sob ever verbose.
?What do I do to ignore/dispel the sob ever verbose?
You can listen to it for clues. Lots of reds.
OBSERVE.
>>BOARDED ROADBED
?This stupid evil bee is so near!
There are two ways to look at it: as so near, or an evil bee. Let's go with the bee itself.
It's an evil bee. It feeds on your doubt.
BELIEVE.
?Should I do anything with the vile bee?
You don't have to. But you'll get an extra point.
It is still SO NEAR. It is a senora. It has no ears.
REASON that it cannot possibly exist.
?That took time! I can't find the cellar!
You'll never remember.
You can't become a caller.
But you can RECALL. There's another solution, too. You can listen.
I'd veer...ever I'd--a way to figure where it was?
DERIVE.
>>DRAIN NADIR
?A spider, sad pier, diapers...
You can scan them all. But you need to hit rock bottom.
You must give up, sort of, and not give up.
DESPAIR.
>>BOREDOM BEDROOM
?I may or may not want to drink the lager!
Turns out you don't.
It is upsetting to find it there. Such productivity lost!
This is a last lousy point.
The settler's cheat mode breaks it open since it scans "REGAL LAGER" as red. That makes the first letter clear. Then four possibilities are left.
You can cut them down further reading the red text about Ergal Agler.
Or you can GLARE at it right away.
?How do I lead?
Some despair still lingers. Dale Elda and Leda Adle have advice on how to lead in their book.
You need to learn to DEAL.
>>BROWSE BOWERS
?How do I reside somewhere now?
You are ready to want a bigger place.
The brochures may help you here.
Sir Dee tells you to Reside...
Or to DESIRE to.
>>ECON-CONE
?Who is the statue? What should I do with him/it?
Just as with the cellar, there are two things. The more visible is the statue's name.
Trevis Vister. Hmm. And there are rivets.
The statue is there to make people want to be like him.
STRIVE.
?What else should he inspire me to do?
This is an extra point.
Re-scan the rivets spelling praise.
ASPIRE!
?I need to enter the skyscraper, but my sales pitch isn't refined enough!
The bottle of Pernod is a bit of a hint.
Notice whom it's from in red.
PONDER.
>>UPSCALE CAPSULE
?The guy I deposed is bugging me!
What can you do to concentrate on your REGION? Your tan ivy vanity title provides some hints. As does the banging on the door.
IGNORE him.
?Why can't I eat the lobster yet?
You need to feel you can, you deserve it.
The settler busts this wide open in cheat mode.
BOLSTER.
?Why don't I understand the motivational picture of the stream?
You aren't on top of things yet. The stream should refocus you...
...if you MASTER things.
?I'm not worth my salt!
You will be, with time.
If you haven't dealt with the lobster or the stream, you need to.
Then, you need to LAST.
?I'm jealous of the singer! Well, there are two!
Siren G. Grines makes you want to give it all up.
You need to have dealt with the salt.
Then you can RESIGN. But there is another solution.
?Is the song being played important?
Eddie C. sings "I'd Cede" or, worse, "I Ceded."
The CDEDE... "I..." that reddens your eyes is another clue.
You can DECIDE.
?DIVORCES magazine. Is it useful?
It's worse than useless from society's perspective, but hey, it gets you a last lousy point.
You need to realize something...
...there's an actual magazine called the word you need...
...DISCOVER why the magazine is rubbish.
>STORE W
>>LOFTIER TREFOIL
?How do I get out?
Get rid of Rodney and his followers.
They're not really dedicated to him. Get rid of three--any three--and he's more malleable.
You can get a clue what sort of word to use if you listen to his babble about people that didn't make the cut.
He describes them with anagramming adjectives.
Once they're gone, you can send him YONDER.
Or you can make him DRONEY and his followers will get bored.
>>>RODNEY'S GOONS
?How do I get rid of the goons? And why are so many listed? I only see six.
Six of twenty-five are randomly chosen. Well, randomly chosen, one from each subgroup, so that randomness doesn't make things too hard or too easy. There are no clues below, just the groups I picked warriors from.
Geno, Shane, Tyson, Wade.
Edwin, Eldon, Floyd, Royce.
Blake, Bredo, Daryl, Dewey.
Ernest, Marcel, Marlon, Reggie.
Andres, Andrew, Archie, Barney.
Cedrick, Demitri, Leander, Preston, Terrance.
Andrew has a particularly silly description.
?Andres
Roaming freely in his territory...
...until SNARED
?Andrew
A careless looking fellow. Needs some direction.
WARNED
?Archie
Free of pain.
ACHIER.
?Barney
Don't have to make him flee too far.
NEARBY.
?Blake
A positive looking chap.
But he can be made BLEAK.
?Bredo
Very interested.
Til he is BORED.
?Cedrick
No visible injuries.
CRICKED.
?Daryl
He is in shape for the job. Fix that.
LARDY.
?Demitri
Stiffest upper lip here.
TIMIDER.
?Dewey
He is muscular.
Not when you make him WEEDY.
?Edwin
An anti-alcohol guy?
A swig might turn him.
WINED.
?Eldon
Full of boundless youth.
Until he is OLDEN.
?Ernest
Very relaxed.
Make him TENSER.
?Geno
Just sort of there. What if her were not?
GONE
?Goldy
Not very holy.
GODLY.
?Leander
Seems kind of dumb. Give him book-smarts.
LEARNED.
?Marcel
Very animated.
CALMER.
?Marlon
Thinks he's a cut above?
NORMAL
?Preston
The best placed for defense?
Not when PRONEST.
?Reggie
Smells and looks spotless.
Make him EGGIER so he must go freshen up.
?Royce
Not shy.
Unless COYER.
?Shane
A ruddy complexion.
Til he is ASHEN.
?Terrance
He is not shirking.
RECREANT.
?Tyson
Many emotions...
...unless he's STONY.
?Wade
Confident and poised, but sensible enough to know if he might be overmatched.
Til he's AWED.
>>TOPSIDE DEPOSIT
?What can I do with the flowerpot?
Nothing, until near the end.
?What can I do with the tarts?
You can put them in the toaster, and it will give you the ability to XRAY something for a hint.
?What's the toaster for?
It's a rosetta toaster.
Put bready products, like the tarts, in the toaster, and you can see through stuff to what it should be.
Including the final puzzle.
Budget as you need to.
?Is there any functional difference between the pastries I find? And how many are there?
No. They are all the same.
There are five pastries total.
?Some dude called Ray Eck is blocking me!
What a yacker.
He has that annoying keycar. Maybe if it broke down, he'd stop ramming you with it.
Make him and/or the car CREAKY.
Now you can explore other places.
>>GUARDIANS, GUARDIANS
?How many do I need to clear?
Eleven, minimum, including the serpent.
There are eighteen total including the serpent.
You must clear five guardians to reach and leave certain corners (NW-N, SE-E, and by the copse,) and you must clear both guardians by the coastline so the smart kid is not scared.
To get to the Coastline and clear it, you must zap at least seven guardians. You can actually avoid visiting (saltbed and strait) or (sunbelt and deltas).
The minimum guardians to zap are clued very tangentially by the spec-o-scope, which says HI. The H corresponds to clearing the west and east sides, as well as west and east in the Treading Gradient. The I corresponds to the north and south sides, as well as north and south in the Treading Gradient. The next hints contain rough reasoning why you need to clear seven guardians inside the three-by-three area.
You must clear two guardians from the Coastline, one from the Garden, and one from the Cinema. You must clear one from the Copse, and one from/to the Treading Gradient. All these exclude each other.
The quick and dirty observation is that the one path from the Treading Gradient can connect to the Copse or Coastline, but not both. Then there's no way to connect anything else.
To grind through things, let's take the path you chose from the Copse. Assume it's to the north. It must hook up to the one you chose from the Cinema or Treading Gradient. If it hooks up to the Treading Gradient, the Cinema can hook south (missing the Coastline) or east (missing the Copse.) Note we didn't even worry about the Garden, here.
We can mirror this reasoning across a line northeast from the copse (proof by symmetry) to eliminate the path east of the Copse, too.
?Can I walk around guardians I can't solve?
For the most part, yes, eventually, except those guarding corners.
?How can I figure guardians a bit more easily?
Trying to walk past, attack or talk to them may give clues.
Of course, you can x-ray them.
The kid and Dr. Yow also give one clue.
>>>Specific guardians (alphabetical order)
?Admirer
(S)he'd have less of a crush on you...
...if (s)he were MARRIED. If you're obscure and mean, you can make her/him...
MARDIER.
?Alarming Grailman
You can't be a grailman unless you are a cut above.
He can't imagine being worse than average.
MARGINAL.
?Atheists
They're patient and willing to explain their views.
Could you make them hurry up so they give up?
Yes, make them HASTIEST.
?Bluster Butlers
Making them more circumspect could help them move up in the world, and away from here.
They can become SUBTLER.
?Bonker
It works perfectly.
Til it's BROKEN.
Oh, look, something else! We'll tackle that at the end.
?Dandier Arid Den
It won't let you pass without buying its product, NERD-AID.
It's endorsed by, among others, ED INDAR.
Make the den, or the bottles, DRAINED.
?"Flemish" man with inapt paint.
The inapt paint is wrong.
His name is Mel Fish, and that's in red.
He just wants not to be defined by social conventions.
I.e. he wants to be HIMSELF.
?Ingrates
Currently the ANGRIEST.
If the madness became whining...
...they could be ANGSTIER.
?Muscly hulk
Strength doesn't matter without dexterity.
So make him CLUMSY.
?Natives
These guys could be one thing, or the other.
If you want to sucker them with pride, VAINEST.
If you want to sucker them with stupidity, NAIVEST.
Neither is better or worse than the other.
?Once-Sad Deacons
They're very hostile. The opposite of what you'd expect. They're planning a hostile ol' heist.
Make them feel differently.
Make them the HOLIEST.
?Organised Ego-Drains
They make you feel like you can't do anything, and they're very reasonable and not overdone.
You can laugh at them if they become GRANDIOSE.
?Pirates
They have impressive tans they're proud of.
How to make the pirates lose them?
Make them PASTIER.
?Lars Eede/Elsa Erde (deal seer)
The deal seer hits the Reed's Ale quite hard!
They feel trapped in their life and can't stop drinking.
You can help them get RELEASED.
The Reed's ale can also become RESEALED.
?Sweatier wait-seer
He doesn't seem to get tired of blocking you.
Make him WEARIEST.
?Unripe i-Prune
Whatever it is, it's terrifyingly big.
Make it PUNIER.
?The stinger replaced the bonker!
It sure is vigilant.
How to lower its energy?
Make it RESTING.
>>LOCATIONS THAT DON'T 100% MATTER
?Which ones have nothing besides guardians??
Strati Strait and Salted Deltas.
Danger Garden and Anemic Cinema have guardians you need to pass, but there's nothing there.
Baldest Blasted Saltbed and Unblest Sunbelt have scenery that gives LLPs.
Nude Dune and Lost Lots have pastries and an LLP each, but nothing critical.
Of course, you must pass through one of the Strait/Deltas and Saltbed/Sunbelt. But you don't have to visit both to solve the Towers area or even get maximum points.
>>SCOPE COPSE
?What's the scope for?
It shows you where you need to go.
It also creates a map in the upper window that lasts until you cross the lake.
?What are the yurts doing? How can I get rid of them?
They're quite eco-friendly, or seem to be. They seem well build enough.
Unless, or until, they're RUSTY.
>>OUTER ROUTE
?What's the campiest campsite for?
To hold the rapier repair.
Campiest campsite was the name of a room, but it was a bit too obvious. Or implement a full campsite. But I didn't want to remove it completely.
?What's the rapier repair for?
Fixing worn down swordy things.
You may've found one behind the weeds in the Treading Gradient.
The ragged dagger.
PUT DAGGER IN REPAIR.
?What are the sway-ways for?
They are scenery to "help" you "decide" to go back east.
>>TREADING GRADIENT
?Do I need to get rid of the weeds?
No, but you can (and need to) make them immobile.
Make them SEWED.
?What's a raves saver?
A tape recorder.
Note it can RETAPE or REPEAT.
You'll need to use both to get through.
If you notice its brand name, you can get an LLP.
It's a replay player.
So it can be PEARLY, too.
?What's the denim for?
You can't cut at it with anything normal.
It can, however, be MINED.
?What's the ragged dagger for?
It needs to be toned up.
You'll find something for that in the Campiest Campsite.
PUT DAGGER IN REPAIR.
The gizmo is handy later.
>>SHAVEN HAVENS
?What can I do with the duck?
It has a nametag.
Have you seen anyone by that name?
Dr. Yow is locked up in the subsector.
You can't move Dr. Yow to the Shaven Havens, but you can move his voice.
The duck might trust that.
>>NUDE DUNE
?What can I do about the strudel?
You can just take it. Or you can take it with style.
Doing so is a last lousy point.
It can be RUSTLED.
>>LOST LOTS
?What can I do about the fluster-self rut?
It is agitated, and it agitates you.
How can you calm things down?
Make everything more RESTFUL.
?How do I get past the gasfield?
Well, you don't need to.
And you can't.
>>OBSCUREST SUBSECTOR
?Who's the person in prison?
Read the fence.
Dr. Yow.
Dr. Yow won't speak until compelled.
?How do I get Dr. Yow to speak?
Scanning gives a word...
...or two.
ROWDY is one.
WORDY is the other.
Dr. Yow's voice is useful.
But the duck probably doesn't need Dr. Yow yelling.
?Is a log-gaol important?
Yes, to make the subsector obscurest.
It wouldn't be very obscure if it had more than one exit, would it?
?Is the fissure important?
Try making it FUSSIER.
Nothing happens--with just you there.
?The fence doesn't have anything I can unlock!
Right. You'll need help.
The lone duck may be a clue.
If only it were in the subsector!
How could you lure it there?
By moving Dr. Yow's voice over.
The raves saver can record it.
PUSH RETAPE after getting Dr. Yow to speak.
PUSH REPEAT in the Shaven Havens.
Return.
The lone duck can't be unlocked, but it seems to know to go to the fissure.
Alternatively, making the fissure FUSSIER causes the duck to go over.
?Is Dr. Yow good for anything else?
Yes. Don't go on til you see someone new on the coastline.
The kid is interested in technical stuff.
Playing the raves saver isn't enough.
?How should Dr. Yow lecture the kid?
WORDY has been done. This is an exciting lecture. Or it needs to be. Kids get bored easily!
ROWDY.
?The kid looks tentative. Can I change that?
This is an LLP. It was part of the main puzzle before I felt it was a bit arbitrary. The word was too long, and it was too easy in cheat mode.
TENTATIVE can become...
...ATTENTIVE.
>>ACTIONLESS COASTLINE
?What are the natatorium and hatchery for?
They are convenient places for the atheists and hostile person/people to go once you've neutralized them.
There's no way to enter.
?Somebody seems to be hiding. What gives?
Ray Eck and Lois the Hostile, or the Hostile-is-He Lot, are hard to hang with.
You need to get rid of them both. When they do, someone new will appear.
?Does the kid have to FIDGET so much?
He can't. He would love to be a bit smarter.
You can calm him down and help him focus by making him...
...GIFTED.
?What's the kid interested in?
Technical stuff. Like Dr. Yow knows. Dr. Yow's in the subsector.
ASK KID ABOUT DOCTOR once you rescued the doctor.
?The kid needs a tool. What's a good one?
The gizmo will be useful. It baffles you--and, well, me, to be honest. I just sort of take the best anagrams available.
GIVE GIZMO TO KID.
?Is the, uh, a bot-boat safe?
Not even close, to start.
The turbos and blaster are broken.
You need to fix one, preferably both.
The turbos can be more ROBUST.
The blaster can be STABLER.
?Is the weirder red wire good/bad for anything?
It's not critical to the game.
It doesn't replace fixing the turbos or blaster.
But it is a Last Lousy Point.
It can be reorganized...
...or REWIRED.
>>RAWEST WATERS
?Help! Which shore?
Northern, Eastern and Northeast(ern).
The settler gives seven letters.
What can be done to get closer to the eastern shore?
Make it NEAREST.
?Hey! I never saw this location. What gives? Is this a fake clue?
You skip over Rawest Waters if you fix a bot-boat completely. If you'd only half-fixed them, you'd have landed here. The puzzle is about as easy as the other two, so I figured it'd be neat to have two ways through.
>>LEAK LAKE
?What does Elk Akela want?
Akela is waiting for Kala Keel, obviously.
AKA Kelle.
If you're very careful and you've already solved Store P, you can hook back to a hidden path under Harm's Marsh and Mount Um-Not to reveal a rare secret.
It's so rare, it's not even in the game, because there's no way to get to Leak Lake. Leak Lake is just a backdrop.
Yeah, I had to write in a joke clue. Right after one people might think was a joke, just for extra misdirection.
>>MISLIT LIMITS
?What can I do about the pester'n serpent?
You don't need to get rid of it, strictly. Unless you want maximum points.
Can't make it so it REPENTS. That's a verb.
You can't make it go away.
But you can neutralize it.
It'll be calmer if it's just PRESENT.
?What's with the crocus?
It's not fully necessary, either. You can't touch it when it's so bright and radioactive looking.
If you read the flowerpot, you may note a hint.
The crocus is DYING, but maybe you can make it...
DINGY.
?There aren't many hints here for the curst palace!
If you opened the solo den, you can return, talk to Ed Yerg, and come back. There'll be new clues.
Scan them all and eventually you can narrow it down.
?Eleven letters for the curst palace? Really?
It is a big castle. And it's a final puzzle.
Ed Yerg, once friendly, seems to indicate it inspires generic superlatives.
Like fantastic, incredible...
...remember, it was great once...
...SPECTACULAR.
>>LONE SOD'S/OLD ONE'S SOLO DEN
?Do I actually need to be here?
Only if you want full points.
?Ed Yerg sure is greedy!
He could shrug off the veneer of false youth...
...if he were GREYED.
?How do I get any useful concrete information from Ed Yerg?
Give him a gift.
If the crocus is no longer dying, and it is in the flowerpot, you can do so.
>STORE Y
>>POSH HOPS SHOP
?Why do the pills have a warning?
They're dangerous.
Dangerously addictive, because they allow a free pass through some puzzles here.
If you SPILL PILLS, in various places, they do different things. But you only get one use.
Okay, more, if you save before using. Or you have a debug version of the binary I used to test the feature. Which was fun.
?What do I need to do to get by the trolls?
Well, you need to be all cool.
STROLL.
But you need to do a few things to be a more undesirable patron.
?What's the gins sign for?
It should suggest a standard Inform verb when you examine it--or by its letters.
SING.
?What's the perma-amper for?
You can fiddle with it if you know the technical terms.
REMAP it. This means you can't deal with the tunes for a point.
?Can I get rid of the tunes?
Sure.
Just UNSET them. This means you can't deal with the amper for a point.
?What are the stumbler tumblers for?
They're because TIPS are the PITS.
How could you do worse than not tip?
SPIT.
?Can/should I bug Casper?
He has good general information.
But you can also do something to irritate him.
Casper Spacer, Capers Recaps...
SCRAPE.
?What do I do with the stein?
Well, there are tines.
You can't quite INSERT...
...but you can INSET.
?Why can't I do more than three annoying things here?
The trolls would get too upset and would have an excuse to give you the business.
>>OLDE LODE
?What's the clam doing?
It's agitated.
Perhaps you can CALM it.
?What's this urn? Why can't I walk away?
Taking it kills you.
You need to do something faster than walk.
You need to RUN.
>>HEROS' SHORE
?What're the boats for?
You can make some noise to get their attention.
If you SOB AT them, they're not interested.
You need to BOAST.
That gets you to the Fighter Frigate.
?Can I cross on the raft?
Yes, and you get an extra point for doing so.
The oars on the raft are odd.
Get on the raft first. What can you do there?
FART.
The oars are fuller now. You can't cross the river at ground level...
SOAR.
?Is the canoe useful?
Well, to see ALL the game, yes.
You can turn it into an ocean...
...but that's counterproductive.
It's just a dumb joke/Monty Python reference. You can undo the silly death.
>>FIGHTER FRIGATE
?How do I get out of here?
Once you're on the fighter frigate, your next action should be pretty clear.
The scary crays aren't going to help, but the pale plea might.
You need to LEAP.
?I didn't get here. How do you?
BOAST instead of using the raft at Hero's Shore.
>>ANGER RANGE
?How to stop the bullies?
Hmm. Carps and Pikes.
You can SCRAP...
...or you can SPIKE.
?How do I release the haunter?
Etahn Ru is its name. Lots of red letters!
You need to UNEARTH it.
But you also need to help it recover its ruby.
Don't go on 'til you've found a jewel.
There's one inside the bubble wrap.
He will take revenge on whoever stole it.
What can you do with a ruby?
BURY it.
You'll need the right tool.
And the right place.
?Why's anger range so angry?
The haunter lies beneath.
You must release him to make him less angry.
You need to UNEARTH him once you have a shovel. Or, well, something like it.
Say, a rigged digger.
?How do I calm the ghost down once he's here?
He is a SAUSAGE.
ASSUAGE him.
>>HARDEST TRASHED DEARTHS
?What do I do with the cans?
You don't have to do anything.
This is maybe the second-easiest LLP in the game to Peg A. Page's revolting book.
Easier, since it's a verb you probably already used.
SCAN the cans.
?No one's here but I hear something.
They're EEKS.
Try to SEEK them.
>>LEAN LANE
?What does Aunt Tuna want me to do?
She informs you her nephew the trout's name is Tortu. He hates bullies.
He needs to be taught.
You can TUTOR him.
Then you get what's in the raw red drawer.
?What do I do with the tea?
It's not the sort of tea you can drink, and with five anagram possibilities, you can use process of elimination, here.
You EAT it.
The paler pearl is useful later.
?Are the wipes usable/takeable?
Yes and yes.
First, let's figure how to take them.
We need to take them quickly.
SWIPE them.
?Is the dent in the desk useful?
No, except for getting one more point.
It's a rather easy point. Let's just say if you scan it in cheat mode, it falls out.
?What do I do with the Bubble Wrap?
You WARP it.
Well, not here. But it's useful against someone.
?What can I ask Aunt Tuna about?
She will tell you about her friend Valeri who gave her a packet.
Which you can get, or you do have.
It's what the ghost is after.
?Can I fix the dent?
Yes and no. You can't FIX it. That's only three letters...
...but you can TEND it.
?Can I go back to the Hardest Trashed Dearths?
No, but you don't need to.
>>LAPSIN' PLAINS
?How do I unlock the snap pans?
The skis and knob are in the way.
KISS the skis.
The knob is also stuck.
BONK the knob.
Then you should be able to SNAP.
But wait! A crate.
?How do I avoid being hit by a crate?
This is another two-parter.
They're too broken to cater with.
You need to figure where it's coming from.
TRACE it.
But that's not enough. You need to avoid it.
REACT.
?Anything else I can do?
You can talk to nobody in general for a last lousy point.
What is the location's name?
PLAINS.
You can do something with that. It's a bit slangy, but...
...you can SPLAIN your goals and dreams and wishes.
>>SHADIER AIRSHED
?What do I do with the tubs?
Maybe there is something inside.
You need to break them open.
Or BUST them.
?What the heck can I do with a prod?
The way to open it is simple yet annoyingly weird.
DROP the prod.
?Does the waste need clearing?
Not if you don't want ALL the points.
It's work to clear.
SWEAT.
?Can I do anything with the heaps I left?
Yes, but you don't have to.
They're lumped inartistically.
This is a last lousy point.
SHAPE the heaps.
?What do I do with a dirty lance?
You need the wipes fromthe Helots' Hostel.
Then you can CLEAN the lance.
?What do I do with the rigged digger?
Two things. First, it can release the haunter...
...if you UNEARTH.
Second, once you have the ruby...
...you can BURY it.
?How do I bring a plane in?
Well, you need to manipulate the panel.
You need to uncover it first.
There was a panel in Shuffling Around.
How did you get it?
By folding a paper plane.
I didn't want to reuse an anagram, so...
...there is no plane. I just needed an anagram for a believably big area, for the items.
?How do I operate the plane?
You can't operate the buttons, but...
I bet a nuts bot could.
You could make it respect you if you told it tut, snob...
...And if there actually was a nuts bot in the game. Or, well, buttons. Or a plane.
>>ACHERS' ARCHES
?Do the arches hide anything?
Yes. Examining's not enough.
You have to SEARCH. But the sardine will block you.
?How do I get rid of the sandier sardine?
He hates noises.
You need something that makes noises.
Here's where you WARP the bubble wrap.
Now you can SEARCH.
?What's the Handsome Sand Home for? ##regignore
To add plausibility for the game blocking you from going west or south.
>>HORNED HEDRON
?How do I get rid of the weaselly walleyes?
They're not scared of much.
The ghost might scare them.
If the ghost passed by them to find a ruby, they'd be scared.
?How do I disable the ol' trap?
Well, first, you need to get rid of the walleyes.
It would be nice as a portal.
You must be able to disable it somewhere.
Look around.
Better yet, PATROL.
Of course, you need the walleyes gone.
>>RASCAL CRAALS
?What is a craal?
It's a place of living.
Not a super fancy one, but it sure sounds exotic!
?What can I do here?
This is a good place to hide stuff.
Like the ruby.
BURY the RUBY.
Then dig the haunter up and lead it by.
?I can't visit the craals after doing something. Is this okay?
Yes. The craals served their purpose.
>>END DEN
?Is this where I want to be?
No. You need an item to scry, and you'll go somewhere else, instead.
Do you have a pearl yet?
There's more than one.
Once you get two, they make a general gleaner.
It's not big enough to see into clearly.
ENLARGE it.
>>DOUREST DETOURS
?I skipped over this! Is it a fake room or clue?
No, it's a small side quest.
You need something from the Shadier Airshed.
The lance. If you have it, the game will alert you.
?What do I do with the ant?
It should be easy. There are only five possibilities.
You need to attack it a certain way.
There are only five possibilities for ANT.
You need to TAN it.
Once you do, you go to the loft-den.
>>TENFOLD TEFLON'D LOFT-DEN
?Stupid papery yapper!
He wants to be bribed, but use a different word, maybe?
The settler can show you what to do. Though it seems to blink.
That is because some letters in one word are right, but not the other.
P or Y is right. E or P is right. Y or R is right. But we know if there's a Y--orange or brown color. And we can tell vowel or consonant.
PREPAY him.
?What do I do with the lever?
It's an optional point.
Have fun knowing you found it.
REVEL.
?What do I do with the dialer?
There's also a clump of letters that can be relaid.
DIALER may become something else.
DERAIL.
?Oh no! Pins are blocking the dialer!
Two solutions here.
They aren't lethal, but they are annoying.
SPIN or SNIP them.
?What else do I do with the dialer?
Well, you can DERAIL again...
...or you can find another way to call back.
REDIAL.
>STORE T
>>WHAT I CAN DO WHEN I'M POWERLESS?
>>>BLEARY BARLEY
?Help! I lost my powers! What do I do?
You're severely weakened.
What's the least powerful type of word in the English language?
The adverb.
The barley covers everything...
...BARELY.
?Ed Riley won't let me by!
He's not a YIELDER.
He won't even share his DELI RYE.
His voice sure booms.
Not if he speaks REEDILY.
?Cinders? What for?
You can use them to DISCERN what word to use.
Showing you don't need them gets another point.
You can also RESCIND them.
>>>GENT-FORA FRONTAGE
?Why can't I go west?
You need to help Gretta Garett-Tatger, whom Elmo told you about.
?How do I disperse the macks?
They're talking total rubbish.
But how they talk it isn't failing yet.
You can only use adverbs to take them down, so look for words with LY.
There're many possibilities, but you only need three. You don't have to respond right away, either.
They cycle through seven things to say. These are determined randomly before the game starts. Any one word is at least seven letters long.
DESPAIRINGLY is always there. Well, it is once they start redisplaying and redisplaying.
One of DRAWLINGLY or EMOTIONALLY will always show up.
One of MODESTLY, STEAMILY or STUPIDLY will also always show up.
There are other shorter ones, too. Below is an explanation of the pods I choose the adverbs from.
Pod 1 is seven letters, repeating. Pod 2 is seven letters, non-repeating. So you always have two seven-letter words.
Pod 3 is eight letters, repeating. Pod 4 is eight letters, non-repeating. So you always have two eight-letter words.
Pod 5 is nine letters, pod 6 is ten, and pod 7 is twelve.
The pods give you slightly more letters to deal with on average, but I felt it was too confusing to have thirty-two adverbs to deal with instead of seven. The sizes are, as of release 4, 4, 4, 8, 4, 5, 2 and 1.
?What good are Gretta's medals?
The IQ and Lucky medals help later. You may guess how. If you figure them now, the game says wait until you need thme.
>>>TAPERING ANGER PIT
?The sly imp simply blocks me!
LY-words again.
With LEGENDARY patience, BUTLERY and RANGILY.
You only need two. Make him lose his cool.
ANGRILY.
BRUTELY. And, for the curious...
...ENRAGEDLY.
>>>ROTE-MOAN ANTEROOM
?The men block me noisily!
They restyle, tallyhoing with callosity.
Tune their volume down.
You need two of three. TERSELY and STOICALLY are the two shorter.
LOATHINGLY
>>GETTING MY POWERS BACK
?Where do I go?
You only need to go north or south of Gent-Fora/Frat-Gone Frontage. The Loop Pool is a bit easier. But going both ways gets you all the points.
>>>LOOP POOL
?The sea cube...
You can't waste words.
But you can't use adverbs.
What word is meaningless by itself?
BECAUSE.
?The eels aren't convinced...
Tell them 'Or...
...ELSE.'
>>>BRAN BARN
?Mr. Lee says 'Hola Thug!' as he wears a ghoul hat.
You have one word to grab his attention...
...ALTHOUGH.
?Rev. Howe didn't quite prophecy me?
HOWEVER...
>>WICKEDER WIRE DECK
?Owls attack me!
You need your powers back.
They are too quick for you.
Unless they are SLOW.
?What of the other animals?
The leopard can be PAROLED.
The ocelots can be COOLEST.
The badger can be GARBED.
The satyr can be ARTSY.
>>PERVERSE PRESERVE
?Whoah! A raptor!
Brute force won't work.
You need your powers back.
Make it a PARROT.
?Nails?
Nothing's slain.
Just an ex-SNAIL.
?Thrones?
Buzzing noises? Sting if you sit on it?
HORNETS.
?Pines aren't an animal!
They have no spine...
They're not a SNIPE.
?The corona is spooky!
It can be a RACOON.
>>COEVALS' ALCOVES
?Why are Elmer and Merle doing things on the sly?
You can get the truth out of them.
It's a last lousy point but not a trivial one. Plus they have silly things to say if you trigger it.
You can make them talk HONESTLY.
?How do I go west?
You need something that can beat a hydra. Seen an animal?
The raptor.
Your friend the ex-ex-parrot will help you...
...RAPTOR.
?What do I do with the whistle?
Practice when nobody's around.
It sounds like someone yelped, but you need to make it less piercing.
Maybe if you could play it DEEPLY.
That will help summon animal friends later.
>>RECLUSION INCLOSURE
?Does the conversation with Elvira matter?
No.
But she has to say something, doesn't she?
?Elvira is too fast for me!
The whistle on its own doesn't work. Especially if you haven't "adjusted" it.
You may need to retreat and come back to do so.
See the note in the preserve if you're stuck.
Have any other gifts?
The medals, IQ and LUCKY.
Neither alone speeds you up, but they clinked together when you rescued various animals.
So go QUICKLY.
?I need allies!
If you haven't practiced with the whistle, it won't work.
You can step outside if you don't know what to do.
Play it DEEPLY back in the Alcoves. Then come back west.
Then just PLAY WHISTLE. You win!
?Should I explore the next area?
Even if you don't right now, you can always ROVE OVER later.
>STORE H
?What does it become?
The clues lead you to somewhere random, different, that doesn't fit in anywhere.
OTHERS.
?I don't get to enter the 'new' area if I restart the game!
This clue is just a buffer so people who viewed this accidentally won't find the shortcut command.
The right command is referenced when you defeat Elvira.
ROVE OVER.
>>RUSTIC CITRUS
?What do I need to do for Curtis?
For starters, get 4 fruits. A few are easy.
The Spear will be PEARS.
The Lumps can be PLUMS.
The Pagers can be GRAPES.
Examine the drinks stand, then the slime can be LIMES.
There are more potential fruits, which you may be able to guess, but you only need four.
?What's the augural arugula for?
Well, it's a cheat item. You can EAT it, then GURU something, and if it can become a fruit, there you go.
But you lose a last lousy point at the end if you GURU something. So it's double-edged.
?What's this stupid moss cap for?
The moss cap is supposed to help you with directions.
It doesn't work so well in its present state.
Try making it a COMPASS.
Now you can go north!
?Anything else I can do besides make fruit?
Curtis gives you something new every four fruits. That's a running total, not four fruits since your last transaction.
So it's possible to bring back a bunch of fruits and get all the stuff below.
After the moss cap for the first four, there is
A tekno-token (4),
A coin (8),
Another coin (12),
And a droll dollar (16).
Beyond that, he just takes stuff. But you don't need it.
?Mad Train?
TAMARIND.
?Eerie Blurbs?
Painted blue-purple.
BLUEBERRIES.
?Peanut Cola?
Some clues on the can.
CANTALOUPE.
?Mopeage rant and other writings?
They're real pips.
POMEGRANATE.
?What's the video tape collection for?
All in red. Clues for a fruit.
Nope, Mr. Sim sounds almost like...
PERSIMMON.
?Barren cries?
CRANBERRIES.
?Harmonicas?
MARASCHINO (cherry).
>>SWELL WELLS
?ScoutCon on Stucco?
COCONUTS.
?ESP Pal t-shirt?
Six letter fruit.
APPLES.
?What about the riot cap?
An APRICOT.
?And the sorer bogey?
GOOSEBERRY.
?And the miser ruble?
MULBERRIES.
?And the green stain?
TANGERINES.
>>Filed Field
?Anything besides fruit here?
No.
?Where is Fidel?
"I fled." He's not coming back.
?The buried raft?
Philip Larkin would figure this out.
BREADFRUIT.
?The mean trowel?
WATERMELON.
?Pipe Panel fence?
Hm, pipe panel.
PINEAPPLE.
?Barriers West?
STRAWBERRIES.
?Barber Sickle?
BLACKBERRIES.
?Pryer Bars?
RASPBERRY.
?The rapt figure?
White and pink with a weird spoon.
GRAPEFRUIT.
>>Scape Space
?How do I trade for the storage?
Got any seedy currency?
Did you try giving the trader a coin?
The coins aren't seedy or valuable enough. Give the trader something more valuable.
Like, after you give Curtis twenty fruits, ...
...the (a) droll dollar.
?Do I need any of the fruits down here?
No, and in fact, they're meant to be a bit tricky.
?I can't take the orange!
You're being too direct about it.
Perhaps if you get close...
...or GO NEAR...
?What to take from the bucket?
Rather, what to nab.
NAB AN A. It will change to a BANANA.
?What about the pugnacious plant?
Hmm, pugnacious and plant don't work.
Look at it--it wants you to attack it.
If you attack it, odd things happen. You say odd things.
Burr, Bah, etc.
RHUBARB.
?What's the RESERVED sign for?
It can be REVERSED for a fruit.
A guava, again, something hard to anagram.
>>Clangier Clearing
?What do I do with Len Craig?
You can just trade with him, but general talking won't work.
You'll have to specify the fruits you want or how you want them.
?I figured out a fruit. Why can't I trade?
You need to have currency.
Curtis gives you a tekno-token for fruit number eight. It has credit.
You can get eight fruits all at Rustic Citrus, or you can get them after making the compass.
You don't really need to do anything here to win, but it may be easier than other areas.
?Is there any theme, beyond the obvious?
Not really. This is a sort of runoff area.
Though there are a lot of adjectives.
?Why should I listen?
A voice says 'go, man.'
MANGO isn't quite it.
You need to get AMONG.
?Lemons?
SOLEMN.
?The melon?
That's not the only one Len Craig has.
MO LEN, or any combination should work.
?The peach?
CHEAP.
?Nectarine?
Needs to be older.
ANCIENTER.
?The auction caution?
Says PAY ASAP.
PAPAYAS.
?List of prices?
An error makes you want to lash out at the prices.
CRIPES!
The kumquat is just a random fruit that was hard to anagram.
?The quince needs something in Italian!
A price, or a number,
Uno, duo, tre, quattre, ...
CINQUE.
>>Gates Stage
?What's behind the gates?
The happy ending.
?How to get through the gates?
You need a passport.
The rest of the questions won't make sense until you talk to Curtis.
?How do I open the storage?
Examining it mentions a lost slot.
You can't see it because it is lost.
You need something to put in the slot.
But not a coin.
?What do I put in the slot?
Coins don't seem to work. Neither does a coin.
The thing doesn't like money--maybe more a token?
Perhaps an ICON would be more your thing.
Or, if you have two coins, they can be ICONS.
?Why does the storage spit my offer out with a hum?
A weird hum. Like sound waves.
You need something to counteract that.
Once you have two coins, you can make them SONIC.
Similarly, ICONS can become SONIC, too.
You can adjust the coins in any order you please to get SONIC ICONS. Well, you can't make a coin SONIC, but you get the idea.
?What do I do with the final item?
It can take you pretty much anywhere.
But you need to pay attention to it.
A viewer and searcher are pretty easy to use. You feel they could be.
REVIEW or RESEARCH.
You're also called a PERP in the demo dome.
In that case you could PREP a bit.
You only need to to two of three actions. They were meant to be easy, to emphasize looking stuff up can be easier than abstruse word puzzles.
Just go through the gates for the finale.
>DEMO DOME MODE
?What do I do here?
You don't need to do much.
Just explore everywhere and examine what you want. The SCORE should keep track of things to you.
?What's Benford's Law?
It's on Wikipedia, yeah, but the example in my own code was maybe a cool learning moment, if you care. And if you clicked here, you actually might.
Benford's Law says that randomly occurring measurements' first digits occur at a rate of [log X+1 - log X] for X from 1 to 9. As long as the measurements span several orders of magnitude.
Of course, you need enough data points to make it significant, too. With 40+, you can start to see the shape.
In my case, the random anagram sets conform to Benford's Law, though it's probably skewed towards the ones digit.
That's because I enjoyed working to round numbers like 1000 or 100 just to hit goals. This was particularly evident when I hit 80 entries.
Since the books hit 6000+ titles (I include both # of entries and KB of entries) I had enough orders of magnitude for Benford's Law to apply. But the general pattern is still pretty clear.
Yay, scientific rules and scientific thinking why data might be skewed! See, this game isn't just about anagrams.
?What's Zipf's law?
It's on Wikipedia, but basically it says naturally countable measurements (like city populations) follow x, x/2, x/3, etc. Or x, x/2^z, x/3^z.
My anagram lists do so--but in two segments. That's probably because I introduced many lists late. You can calculate, though, that it roughly works for the top ten.
Some anagram lists outstripped others at various times. But the laws were still roughly followed.
>GENERAL QUESTIONS FOR YOUR (POTENTIAL) AMUSEMENT
?How many ways are there to die?
Not many. And I think they're relatively obvious deaths. Easily undoable too.
You can curse in the Cleric Circle. (u)
You can turn the BEAN into BANE. (u)
You can troll the trolls four ways instead of three in the Posh Hops Shop. (y)
You can take the urn in the Olde Lode. (y)
You can create an OCEAN where there's a canoe. (y)
You can attack the scary crays on the fighter freight. (y)
You can wait around and not change the owls or the raptor. (t)
You can go west to face Elvira without using the medals. (t)
You can wait around by Elvira, or try to train with the whistle in the Reclusion Inclosure, or attack her directly. (t)
In old versions, you used to get killed by the haunter, but I found that to be too cruel, so now  the game hints the right way to do things instead.
?Bad anagrams:
...making the plates or staple PASTEL, PLEATS or PETALS?
...trying to STUB or say BUTS/BUTS around the tubs?
...making GAPERS around the pagers or grapes?
...saying TARD to get the dart? (don't say this word in real life. It's not nice.)
...saying HORSE at the shore?
...saying EOL or ELO by Leo?
...saying SNOG when you hear the song in the Upscale Capsule?
...saying SPINE around the pines? There's another one, too. It's more colorful. You'll figure it out, but that's part of the fun.
...looking in the source code for the rest? ("table of anayux")
?Is Casper Spacer "anyone"?
He's a lame parody of a pastiche of great writers, but nobody in particular.
He could be the fish equivalent of Hemingway, if you wanted him to be.
Regardless of your opinion of Hemingway's works, I hope you agree with me that there are never enough Hemingway parodies.
?Is Elvira "anyone?"
Not really. But her backhanded compliments and misguided charisma are things I generally find annoying.
The name just worked out right, and I'm no good at making straight-out evil characters.
I hope she felt evil enough for you.
